Effective, February, 25, 2000 all of the  (Friday) monthly department conference calls will be held at 10:30am cst instead of 9:00am cst..   The call in number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. I do have a request, with Rick's group increasing in size the number of lines for my favorite number (1-800-283-1805) is limited.  My request is, within each office would you please gather as one big happy family and dial into the call (if/where possible) to help with the number of available lines.  If down the road I see the need for more lines I will have to change the number. Also, below is a list of the remaining calls for the year. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr Remaining (Friday) calls for 2000 at 10:30am cst February 25 March 24 April 21 May 19 June 16 July 14 August 11 September 8 October 6 November 3 December 1 December 29 
Below are the dates for the upcoming year ""2000"" calls for the US/Canada Government Affairs group.  Please mark your calendars accordingly. January 6, 2000 (Thursday, 9:00am cst)  Mandatory Call (Just a reminder) 1-800-283-1805 2000 US/Canada Government Affairs Department Conference Calls January 28  (Friday) February 25  (Friday) March 24  (Friday) April 21  (Friday) May 19  (Friday) June 16  (Friday) July 14  (Friday) August 11  (Friday) September 8  (Friday) October 6  (Friday) November 3  (Friday) December 1  (Friday) December 29  (Friday) The call in number will be 1-800-283-1805 and the calls will take place at 9:00am cst. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. 
Rick asked that I get the US/Canada Goverment Affairs ""Working Group"" list to everyone, so here it is! gngr 
Jeff, I do have a copy but I'm not in the office today.  Ask Joseph if he has a copy, I think I forwarded one there.  Also, attached is the legal letter template that we use for retainment.  Use this document and make the necessary changes.  If changes are drastic, we will need to get it approved by Sharon Butler in Legal.  I will be checking e:mail periodically, so e:mail if you need anything further.  Have a GREAT TURKEY DAY!!!!!!! gngr Jeff Dasovich on 11/22/99 05:24:56 PM 
left you a voice mail.  need to draft an engagement letter for the attorney we've hired for ECI in california.  do you have a copy of the final version of the engagement letter drafted to retain rochelle chong in california?  if so, thought i'd crib from it.  thanks, jeff 
REMINDER:   all  engagements of outside resources are to go through the RCR process.  Also, this process is now on-line.  Please see below. Thanks 
Please see the note from Elizabeth below. RCR's are now on-line and should be submitted via this on-line format. Please refrain from using the old form. Thank you, gngr Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> 
Please see the note from Elizabeth below. RCR's are now on-line and should be submitted via this on-line format. Please refrain from using the old form. Thank you, gngr 
Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> 
As you can see from the list of names above, it's going to be a WILD time on the Whirlpool Golf course in Niagara-on-the-lake.  We have decided that a ""golf scramble format"" be played for the Enron group, and in order to put teams together we need to know a few things such as: Handicap or lowest recorded score and (be honest) How often do you play (# of times in a month) Please forward this information to me by close of business on Tuesday, May 30. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
Below, in the attachment, you will find your confirmation # for your overnight stay in Ontario. If the dates for your stay are incorrect, please call me and I will make the necessary changes with the hotel.  There are two hotels listed, so please make sure you note which hotel your reservation is at.   The two hotel addresses are: Queen's Landing Inn (Main Hotel)   The Prince of Wales Hotel 155 Byron Street     6 Picton Street Niagara-on-the-Lake, ON  L0S 1J0   Niagara-on-the-Lake, ON  L0S 1J0 905-468-2195 phone#     905-468-2195 phone# 905-468-2227 guest fax#     905-468-5521 guest fax# Next week, Cindy Derecskey & myself will be forwarding more detailed information about the activities, location of the meetings, directions, maps and agenda items. Have a great weekend and we'll be in touch with each of you again next week. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - please forward this to all of GA.  Thanks. This is a request for help from my colleagues in GA.  I am preparing Enron's comments to the Federal Trade Commission concerning the results of different ""regulatory approaches"" by states implementing retail electric competition programs or legislation.  The FTC has invited comments on a number of specific issues, but their goal is to ""examine various state retail competition programs and describe those features that have resulted in 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The FT/RDI   March  14  California Conference  call discussed the plight of California utilities and customers.  California  is  a state with IOUs on the verge of bankruptcy, that  wants  to  buy up the utilities power grid  assets that is now seeing, after more  than a  year of  constant  natural gas  price hikes,  gas prices starting to decrease.  There  are 3 ways for California  to get out of  this electricty supply bind  and ease off its power price spikes:  add generation over capacity;  have retail users   reduce peak use consumption and find methods  to  use  cheaper storage of power.  The latter is not  available and the first will  eventually  be  available  medium  term.  Thus  dynamic pricing programs  could help  the retail  power decrease  strategy.  The  California  crisis is indirectly  causing several other states  to stall their  deregulation progress, namely  Oklahoma, Arkansas, Nevada and Missouri. Fifty  percent  of US power load is used by  1 percent  of customers--the industrials. In California, the industrials  are only  one-third of  one percent  of customers  and they use 25 percent  of  the  electricity in the  state.  Going  to this industrial market  and using technoogy and pricing to   conserve  electricity  use would go a long way towards reducing peak demand use.   RDI  believes the gas infrastructure in the US is  there for 100  GW of new gas power plants, but many local hookups must be done to meet  super peak days on a localized basis.  California  is racing   to get  5 or  6 peakers  by this summer yet there may not be enough gas this summer to fill their  needs.  Plans  to add  capacity inside  the state   to receive  gas at the border are lagging  the plans of   interstates  to  add capacity. Summer peak use may  be just  as difficult to meet in the US  as winter peaks  have been.  As new merchant plants come online on a  regional  basis differentials will change  a lot.   But most pressure on prices medium term will be downward, and the  items to watch   is  where/when the  new supplies  show up and  where the new niche interconnects   get  built.   In California  the  Gov. does not want  to  let power prices  go above current price  caps  and  this  will be hard for him to do  and  still give price  signals  that  will  take off demand at the  peak of the market.  Average electricity demand  growth annually  in California  has  been about  3 percent per year  since   1998 but   less  than 1 percent of new capacity  has been added.  In concluding remarks, RDI's  John Egan noted  due to the expected  crush of  changes, market vigilence   will be critical  for the  successful  participants in the gas and power markets 
The next RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 19 at 12:00 PM  CST.  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805. gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Sydni Marie Robinson was born on 3/18/01 at 12:39 p.m.  She weighed 8 pounds and 7 ounces and was 20 inches long. Baby and mother are doing great.  Father sounds exhausted. Ginger, I didn't know if you wanted to send this out to the group. Geriann Warner GA - The Americans Tel: 713-853-5036 Fax: 713-853-7297 
Rick would like to schedule a 90 minute conference call regarding 
The dept. conf. call scheduled for Friday, March 23 at 10:30am (CST) has been cancelled. gngr 
Janel Guerrero 03/20/2001 08:48 PM 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
gngr 
The above referenced call has been scheduled as follows, please mark your calendars: 
Rick would like to schedule a 90 minute conference call regarding 
Please read the attached memo. 
Beginning Monday, March 26, 2001 there will be a daily ""Campaign Leadership Call"".  This conference call was referenced in a memo sent via e:mail by Rick this afternoon, Friday, March 23.  Please remember to mark your calendars accordingly. 
Please make note of the change in time of the  ""Campaign Leadership Call"" . Beginning Tuesday, March 27, 2001 the call will take place daily at 4:30pm CST instead of 11:30am CST.  The dial in number and location for this call will remain the same. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beginning Monday, March 26, 2001 there will be a daily ""Campaign Leadership Call"".  This conference call was referenced in a memo sent via e:mail by Rick this afternoon, Friday, March 23.  Please remember to mark your calendars accordingly. 
Message from Rick: The Campaign Leadership Call, which takes place daily at 4:30pm CST, is ""Mandatory"".  If you are unable to attend, it will be necessary for you to have someone participate on the call in your behalf.  Please notify Rick or myself,  if you are unable to participate and let us know who will be participating for you.  A fine of $25.00 will be assessed to those who do not participate or have someone participate for them.  The monies collected will go to a charity of the group's choice. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Jeff, Here is the int'l dial # for this call: 703-736-7385 Also, Rick knows you are on vacation this week (no charge!) gngr 713-853-7751 Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/28/2001 09:04 PM 
Rick: My apologies.  The family events here in Mexico have conflicted with the calls.  But I will be on the call tomorrow.  (Anything to save $25!) One thing. I'm not sure that I can dial into an 800 number here in Mexico. Ginger:  Could I possibly call you at 4:30 and have you conference me in to the 800 number? Best, Jeff Ginger Dernehl 03/28/2001 11:46 AM 
Message from Rick: The Campaign Leadership Call, which takes place daily at 4:30pm CST, is ""Mandatory"".  If you are unable to attend, it will be necessary for you to have someone participate on the call in your behalf.  Please notify Rick or myself,  if you are unable to participate and let us know who will be participating for you.  A fine of $25.00 will be assessed to those who do not participate or have someone participate for them.  The monies collected will go to a charity of the group's choice. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please make note of the new schedule for the Campaign Leadership Call: Call will now take place on Monday's & Thursday's @ 4:30 PM (CDT).  The next call is scheduled for Thursday, April 5. Don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Please make note of the change in time of the  ""Campaign Leadership Call"" . Beginning Tuesday, March 27, 2001 the call will take place daily at 4:30pm CST instead of 11:30am CST.  The dial in number and location for this call will remain the same. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beginning Monday, March 26, 2001 there will be a daily ""Campaign Leadership Call"".  This conference call was referenced in a memo sent via e:mail by Rick this afternoon, Friday, March 23.  Please remember to mark your calendars accordingly. 
In an effort to control costs for travel expenses, as Jeff Skilling suggested in his floor meeting last week,  Rick would like for everyone to purchase tickets from the Travel Agency in the Park (TAP), which is the preferred travel agent for Enron.  The savings that Enron receives from using TAP is insurmountable.  See below, a list of the contracts Enron has negotiated with some of the airlines.  Whenever possible, plan to purchase tickets at least 3-7 days in advance.  Often the pre-purchase savings outweighs the potential switching fee. The travel agency is also able to give you a better price for hotel reservations through the Hickory rate, which is cheaper then the corporate rate.  TAP's phone number is 713-650-8080 (web address: http://www.travelpark.com) AIRLINE CONTRACTS America West  15% American 28% Continental 17%....25% full business and coach fares US50 to/from Europe Delta 5-28% Northwest/KLM 20 - 30% domestic....25% international TWA 21% - 54% domestic and Houston-Toronto only United 28% US Airways 30% British Air 15 - 35% Also, if at any time you are interested in having your spouse travel with you on a business trip, at the company's expense,  it is necessary for you to have spousal approval.  This approval is needed in advance of the trip, by your immediate supervisor and Rick Shapiro.  Below you will find an attached spousal approval form. gngr 713-853-7751 
Yes sir, the call will take place at 4:30 PM (CDT) and the number is 1-800-283-1805.  (just a reminder, this call now takes place on Monday's & Thursday's (only)). gngr 
The dates for the next Government Affairs meeting have been finalized. Please mark your calendars with the dates below. 
Mike, Rick has scheduled this meeting for Monday, April 23 at 9:00 a.m. CDT.   Can you come to the 47th floor for this meeting?  If so, once you get here we can call Jeff D. from the room. Jeff, let me know which number will be best to reach you at at 7:00 a.m. PDT. Thanks 
Well, the time has arrived for me to let you know what is in store for everyone at the next Government Affairs department meeting on Thursday, June 14.  The meeting will take place at: The Omni Interlocken 500 Interlocken Blvd. Broomfield, Colorado  80021 Phone# 303-438-6600 Fax# 303-464-3252 Check-in time  3:00 p.m. Check-out time  12:00 p.m. (Noon) The  Government Affairs meeting will take place on Thursday, June 14 and will begin at 8:00 am and will conclude by 11:30 am.  I have arranged for box lunches to be served after the meeting.   After the meeting, we will have the remainder of the day for some fun activities, along with a buffet dinner served that evening to complete the day (on-site dinner location TBD). Block of Rooms - A block of rooms have been reserved for Government Affairs. I will be turning in a rooming list to the hotel next week so, I  would like to know by Friday, April 27 your plans to attend the meeting. Shuttle Service -  See attachment for shuttle times.  Please note, a return reservation from the hotel to the airport is required.  Please contact the Concierge to arrange for shuttle service. Colorado Weather - For the month of June, you can expect the following: High's - 80.............Low's - 52 Flights from Houston - I have checked with TAP for roundtrip flights from Houston - Denver, Denver - Houston and an exceptionally great (non-refundable) fare of $190.94 is available.  However, fares are not guaranteed until actually booked.   Let's book early!!!!! The activities to choose from are as follows:  Please let me know by May 4 your choice of activity!!!!!! Whitewater Rafting - A bus will leave the Omni Interlocken Resort at 2:00pm to head for an afternoon of exciting adventure on Colorado's Clear Creek. The Arkansas River is one of the most popular whitewater adventures anywhere, combining spectacular scenery and action packed rapids.  Teamwork is the name of the game as your team paddles down these tumbling cascades.  Continuous class III and IV rapids will thrill guests throughout the run. Drop over Nomad, surge through the Phoenix Holes and take on the class IV climax, the Outer Limits.  Good physical condition and the ability to swim are recommended.  The group will have three thrilling hours on the river and will return to the Omni by 6:15pm. Chautauqua Park Hiking Adventure - One of the most popular access points for mountain hiking trails in Boulder is Chautauqua Park. The focal point is the 100-year-old dining hall.  The Colorado Chautauqua is one of only four of the original Chautauquas still operating in America, as opposed to when thousands dotted the nation and culturally enriched rural people in the early 1900s. The tour includes: transportation, professional guide service, two hours of guided hiking - total time for excursion is 4 hours. (Dress code: Shorts or hiking attire, appropriate footwear, sunglasses, sunscreen and hats). Departure time and return will be relayed at a later date. Spa Services -  The Spa at Omni Interlocken Resort offers a number of spa services (massages, facial & skin care treatments, body treatments or nail services, to name a few).  If you are interested in this as an activity, please let me know and I will fax a detailed list of their services.  You will need to call the spa and schedule your own appointment if this is the activity you choose. Golf -  For the golf enthusiasts, an afternoon of golf at the Omni Interlocken 27-hole championship golf course which stretches out over 300 acres of verdant fairways is another activity to select from.  Spectacular panoramic views from three 9-hole courses, which feature more than 400 feet in elevation changes.  If this is the activity of choice please respond via e:mail and I will add you to the list.  The game of choice will be ""best ball"" play. Biking -  Scenic bike paths are located near the hotel for those with interest.  If this is your choice of activity, please let me know and I will reserve a bike and map for you enjoyment. After reviewing the choices above, please select an activity you prefer to take part in.  Due to the fact that our group is so large, (which makes it more difficult to coordinate activities) once you select an activity, we ask that you not change your selection.  So, please talk to your colleagues ahead of time before making your choice. Thanks and don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. Gngr - SuperShuttle.doc 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
Please see the attached update from Richard S. Shapiro, Managing Director, Government Affairs-The Americas. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, please send this cleaned-up version of the Reason Institute's paper on Price Caps to everyone in Govt. Affairs.  Thanks! 
REMINDER:   all  engagements of outside resources are to go through the RCR process.  Also, this process is now on-line.  Please see below. Thanks 
Please see the note from Elizabeth below. RCR's are now on-line and should be submitted via this on-line format. Please refrain from using the old form. Thank you, gngr Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> 
There are several of you who have not responded to this e:mail.  Please let me know of your plans to attend (today) as well as, let me know by Friday, May 4 which activity you choose. gngr 713-853-7751 
Below, please find the number for the conf. call scheduled today! 
==================================================== 
The next scheduled RCR call will take place as follows: 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate the attached briefs to the Government Affairs group as an FYI.  These are Enron's briefs filed in the Supreme Court case regarding FERC's Order No. 888 open access proceeding. Thanks Sarah 
Attached is an invitation to Marcia Linton's Retirement Party. 
Yes, with a temporary change for this week only!  The Leadership call will take place Friday, May 18 at 4:30 PM instead of Thursday, May 17 at 4:30 PM. gngr 713-853-7751 Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 05/16/2001 03:37 PM 
Apologies, but I'm trying to make sure that I have the meeting times right. Monday 10:30 AM CDT--""All hands"" meeting with business folks. Monday 3 PM CDT--Washington Call Tuesday/Thursday 1:30 PM CDT--California Call Thursday 4 PM CDT--Leadership call Do I have these right? Thanks a million. Best, Jeff 
The next scheduled Campaign Leadership call which is scheduled for Thursday, May 17 is being rescheduled as follows: 
You are correct! gngr 713-853-7751 Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 05/16/2001 05:08 PM 
Thank you.  So the leadership call is otherwise 4:30 PM CDT on Thursdays? 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Attached on the Cheney Report came via INGAA.  For those in the DC office, I have already printed hard copies if you would like one in that form.  These documents appear to be summaries and background materials on the Cheney report plus comparisons with the House Democrat's plan released yesterday. ? - Overview.pdf - Energy_Plans_Comparison.doc - energy_talkpoints_detailed.doc - energy_talkpoints_summary.doc - energy_q-a.doc - PIC06029.PCX 
The next scheduled RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, May 21.  Please see details below: 
Please see note from Christi Nicolay and send all responses or questions to her attention. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger -- Can you please forward to our North America group.  Thanks. Some originators today reiterated how valuable Gov't Affairs can be in bringing deals (citing Tom Chapman -- Alamac and Dan Allegretti -UI).  The new East power services desk (headed by Lloyd Will and Tom May) is taking off and very interested in muni, industrial on-site generation purchases, scheduling, etc.  Origination (EPMI and EES) are interested in structured deals -- all requirements, tolling, etc.  Thanks for keeping this in mind while out there in the trenches! Christi N. 
Attached are the agenda's for the DC breakout sessions for your review. thanks gngr 
The last scheduled department meeting for the Government Affairs-The Americas group, for the YEAR 2000, will be Friday, December 8, 2000 in Houston, TX at the Doubletreee Hotel.  I have reserved a block of rooms for everyone checking in the 7th and departing the 8th.   I also want to inform you that the Enron Corp. Holiday Party will be held on Saturday, December 9 here in Houston which will give those of you travelling in the opportunity to attend, if you wish. Questions you might have regarding the party. 1.  Are spouses invited? (? for employees outside of Houston)  Yes, but at the employee's expense (ie:airfare). 2. Will Enron pay for the extra 2 nights at the hotel?  Yes, if you can demonstrate that, even with the additional 2 nights stay, plus your airfare, it will still be cheaper than a flight leaving the evening of the 8th.   A lot of times airfare will be much cheaper with a weekend stayover. Example: (a)  Round trip airfare (returning 12/8/00)  = $800.00 (airfare only) Example: (b) Two additional nights at  hotel =     $500.00 (airfare w/a weekend stay) $218.00 (hotel 2/additional nights) Total = $718.00 3. Will Enron pay for additional meals for the weekend?  No.  Meals will be on your own. If you are interested in staying the weekend, please let me know.  There are individuals that need to be contacted with this information. Please mark your calendars and call me if you have any questions. Thanks, gngr 
Since Monday, May 28th is a holiday, the next RCR meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 29 at 12:00 PM (CDT). 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 05/22/2001 04:22 PM 
Ginger--Please forward to the Rick's group. Entire East Power Group org. chart. 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
This was sent to me today by a person who asks to remain anonymous. It appears this press release is being routed to members of the  press: Lora ****************************************************************************** ***** ACORN Launches Campaign to Win Changes from  Enron Contact: Lisa Clauson at MaAcorn@Acorn.org or (617) 436-7100  (office), (617) 233-5497 (cel.), or David Swanson at (202)  547-2500. ACORN, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform  Now, has launched a nationwide campaign to persuade the nation's largest  energy supplier, the Houston-based Enron corporation, to put some of its  enormous record profits into assistance for low-income Americans who cannot  afford their skyrocketing utilities bills. The campaign was launched  with demonstrations in eight cities on May 21.? In Washington D.C., 100  ACORN members from D.C., Philadelphia, and Baltimore, protested at an Enron  office and demanded a meeting to discuss their concerns.?  Representatives of ACORN and Enron met on May 22 to open  the discussion. ""We told them our campaign was just getting started,  and they could expect the pressure to build if they decline to work with us  on a solution in the near future.? Summer is almost here, and elderly  people and children without fans and air-conditioning are going to be in  danger,"" said Kathy Tomosky, an ACORN member from Philadelphia. While  ACORN has been pushing local governments to do their part, and has worked to  increase funding for LIHEAP (the Low-Income Home-Energy Assistance Program),  its members believe wholesalers, which are making huge profits as others face  crises, also have a responsibility to act. Other Demonstrations on Monday  Included: In Sacramento, 250 ACORN members from around California protested  at the offices of Enron's lobbying company, Governmental Associates.?  They also protested at the Capitol, demanding a meeting with Gov. Gray Davis  to discuss the need for a moratorium on shut-offs and the need for lower  rates for low- and moderate-income people. In Portland, ACORN members  took over the 17th-floor office of Enron/Portland General Electric and staged  a sit-in, until they won a commitment to a meeting with PGE's CEO. In  Chicago, 70 ACORN members marched into the 36th-floor office of Enron. They  persuaded the staff to fax a letter to Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay  (see below), and arranged to schedule a meeting with Enron in  Chicago. ACORN members also took over the lobby of Enron's headquarters  in Houston, and demonstrated at Enron offices in Manhattan, Denver, and  Albuquerque. THE CASE AGAINST ENRON Energy wholesalers, like Enron,  and their top executives, are raking in outrageous record profits, while  millions of Americans are facing bills that have doubled and tripled, putting  many at risk of losing their electricity and at risk of losing their lives  during this summer's heat spells.? During heat spells in previous years,  hundreds of children and elderly people without fans or air conditioning have  perished. The Bush energy plan does nothing to address the immediate  crisis of this summer - a crisis that will literally be a question of life  and death for tens of thousands of small children and the elderly.?  Senior citizens on fixed incomes and hard workers fighting to support  families on low wages will face hot days without the electricity to run a  fan, cook food, or refrigerate milk for the kids.? Inflated energy bills  are effectively reducing the standard of living for millions of Americans to  pre-World War II levels in a world less adapted to life without power.?  Price gouging by wholesalers and inaction by the White House could condemn  thousands of people to a painful death.? Bush's devotion to corporate  profits will apparently not give way even in the face of these real tragedies  looming over so many of our grandparents and grandchildren. Five years  ago 700 people died in Chicago during a two-week heat spell.? subsequent examination of the dead by the Chicago Tribune found that  almost all were lower income seniors or young kids who did not have  air conditioning and who were trying to save on their electric bills by  not running their fans at night. Many were without power. Enron, the  nation's biggest energy supplier, saw its profits increase 42 percent in  2000.? Its revenue more than doubled to $100.8 billion from only $40  billion in 1999, an increase of 152 percent.? The vast majority of  Enron 's business involves buying electricity from power plants and selling  it at a markup to local utility companies. While millions of Americans  are facing choices between utilities and food, between utilities and health  insurance, between utilities and childcare, Enron executives aren't feeling  the pinch.? Enron's Chairman, Kenneth Lay received a $7 million bonus as  reward for an ""extremely strong year.""? Lay's salary last year gave him  another $1.3 million.? He also collected $7.5 million in restricted  stock awards, plus options for 782,830 shares that could be valued at $35  million if Enron's stock appreciated 10 percent annually. Families now  struggling to pay their bills are available to comment. Contact Chris Saffert  at (202) 547-2500. Lay is living like a king while inflicting suffering  on others, and our government is aiding and abetting this behavior.? The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has refused to act to make energy  affordable for residential users. Texas, the home of George Bush, is also  home to the largest energy suppliers in the country, including Enron.?  Enron executives and employees contributed more than $500,000 to Bush's  campaigns for governor and president. About $350,000 came from Lay, who was  one of the Bush ""Pioneers"" who raised at least $100,000 for the presidential  campaign. Lay also gave Bush use of Enron's private jet during the  presidential race. For the inaugural festivities, Lay, Enron Chief Executive  Jeff Skilling, and the corporation itself, each contributed the maximum  $100,000. Does this perhaps explain Bush's reluctance to do anything to  help California consumers?? Enron sold natural gas and electric power  in California last year.? According to a study by the California  Independent System Operator, Enron earned excess profits of $28 million by  exercising market power.? Enron is being sued for violating the City of  San Francisco's unfair business practices law.? Santa Clara County has  joined a lawsuit against power suppliers including Enron, alleging they  conspired to raise prices and boost profits while subjecting consumers to  higher bills and blackouts. ACORN's Demands: ACORN demands a  nationwide moratorium on utility shutoffs this summer for the elderly and  families with children -- to be funded with an excess profit tax on wholesale  energy suppliers. ACORN demands national price caps on utility costs for  residential use. ACORN demands that Enron use some of its vast profits  for an expanded energy assistance program, help leverage federal government  funding for energy assistance, and assist in the creation of a conservation  program that will supply low-income consumers with home audits,  energy-efficient appliances, and other energy-saving steps. LETTER  THAT HAS BEEN FAXED: Kenneth Lay, Chair Enron Corporation 1400  Smith Street Houston, TX 77002 May 21, 2001 Dear Mr.  Lay: We write to request a meeting to discuss the sky high fuel costs  that are posing a huge and unmanageable burden for low and moderate income  people across the country. We believe that you, along with the other major  power suppliers across the country, especially those which have enjoyed  windfall profits as our budgets have been stretched to the breaking point,  have a real responsibility to make sure that our families do not have to  continue to make such difficult choices between fuel and food or medicine. We  want to talk with you about what we can do together to ease this  burden. Enron has been making windfall profits selling power, and  thereby contributing to the suffering of our members and other community  residents from record high utility bills that threaten families ability to  meet our basic needs.? ACORN demands that Enron take real steps to help  solve the problems that they have helped create. 1. We need to end  skyrocketing utility bills which leave us totally unable to make ends meet,  and threaten vulnerable people with air-conditioning and refrigeration shut  offs in the dangerous summer heat.? Enron must respond to the immediate  crisis by contributing 2% of their profits, or $250 million to a fuel  emergency fund to provide assistance to low and moderate income consumers,  and especially the elderly, children,? and people with health problems,  in paying their utility bills.? A limited portion of the funds should be  dedicated to outreach to sign up eligible participants. 2. We need to  help people reduce costs in the long terms by making their homes more energy  efficient.? Enron must? provide funds to support comprehensive  residential conservation efforts in both owner occupied and rental  properties.? Such efforts would include home audits to determine  what was needed, along with the provision and installation of  appropriate technology including power saving refrigerators, improved  insulation and sealing of doors, windows, and pipes, etc, 3. We need  basic access, affordability, and fair rates for the future. Enron  must? : - Support ACORN's demand for a moratorium on shut offs to  vulnerable populations including households with elderly people, young  children, and people with health problems - Support ACORN's efforts to win  a comprehensive and government supported program to cap utility payments for  low and moderate income customers at a limited percentage of income -  Support price caps on wholesale electricity sales such as those proposed in  the Feinstein Smith bill. - Join ACORN in requesting a meeting between ACORN  and Vice President Dick Cheney to discuss energy costs. As you may  know, ACORN is the nation's oldest and largest grassroots organization of low  and moderate income people, with more than 125,000 member families across the  country. Over the years, we have been extremely active on issues relating to  utilities, and in recent months our members in cities from Chicago to  Philadelphia to St Louis and Seattle have been fighting to protect our  members and our communities from utility shut-offs, and for payment  assistance plans to help pay utility bills. We would appreciate a  response today on a date and time for a meeting between yourself and other  appropriate senior personnel, and a team of our senior leaders, within the  next two weeks.? You can contact me through our campaign director, Lisa  Clauson at 617-436-7100. Sincerely, Maude Hurd ACORN National  President Contact: Lisa Clauson at MaAcorn@Acorn.org or (617) 436-7100  (office), (617) 233-5497 (cel.), or David Swanson at (202)  547-2500. ACORN, the Association of Community Organizations for  Reform Now, is the nation's largest community organization of low- and  moderate-income families, with over 100,000 member families organized into  500 neighborhood chapters in 40 cities across the country. Since 1970 ACORN  has taken action and won victories on issues of concern to our members. Our  priorities include: better housing for first time homebuyers and tenants,  living wages for low-wage workers, more investment in our communities from  banks and governments, and better public schools. We achieve these goals by  building community organizations that have the power to win changes --  through direct action, negotiation, legislation, and voter  participation.? ACORN's website is at http://www.acorn.org.? To subscribe to  ACORN's Email list send an Email with only the words ""subscribe acornupdates""  in the body of the message to majordomo@Acorn.org. David  Swanson, communications coordinator ACORN, the Association of Community  Organizations for Reform Now 739 8th Street SE Washington, DC  20003 (202) 547-2500 p (202) 546-2483 f acornnews@acorn.org www.acorn.org To subscribe to ACORN's Email  list send an Email with only the words ""subscribe acornupdates"" in the body  of the message to majordomo@Acorn.org. 
The next scheduled Campaign Leadership call for Thursday, May 31 is being rescheduled to Friday, June 1 @ 4:00 P.M.  The dial number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. These calls are mandatory so, in the future, if you are unable to participate on the call, please let Rick or myself know. Thanks! gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Litigation Team weekly conference call scheduled for today has been cancelled.  It will be held next Thursday, June 7, from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m. Central time. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 
Attached, please find the ""West Desk Organizational Chart"".  Please note, this is chart is for ""internal use"" ONLY! gngr 713-853-7751 
These talking points are to help you address questions about the Front Line program that took place last night. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beyond the two excellent editorials in today's WSJ (attached) the following should be the key messages: 1.  The show was an aimless wander through the well-worn territory of blame-game politics, with a healthy dose of fear mongering thrown in. 2.  It should not surprise anyone that two Berkley-based journalists, working in conjunction with the New York Times, would ignore Econ 101 and suggest that the solution for California's energy crisis is to subject the entire nation to Roosevelt era New Deal regulations.  Such pinings have been abandoned over the past 65 years, but if the New York Times wants to stake out that position ... fine.  It will probably help sharpen the debate and set up a clear victory for the market when supply comes onstream and prices moderate.  (Much sooner than the decades of legal wrangling to return to New Deal regulations.) 3.  The show completely ignored the failings of California's political and regulatory leadership to moderate or even eliminate the crisis when they had a chance. 4.  Of the electricity consumed in California, less than 15 percent is generated by companies headquartered in Texas.  More than 50 percent of the electricity in California is generated by municipal entities that have been charging the same high prices as the Texas ""pirates.""  These good pirates include the Bonneville Power Administration, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Government of British Columbia, and the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. Business World: California's Ship of Fools By Holman W. Jenkins Jr. 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A27 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Lamenting the politician's lot in ""Profiles in Courage,"" John F. Kennedy wrote that ""In no other occupation is it expected that a man will sacrifice honors, prestige and his chosen career on a single issue."" Of course, no politician would last long if he didn't blow with the wind nine times out of 10. But on the tenth occasion even California has the right to expect some courage. We don't know what happens when an advanced economy like California's suffers day after day of blackouts. We may be about to find out. Modern office architecture becomes uninhabitable without air-conditioning and elevators. Old people and asthmatics may die in the heat. So may drivers at unlit traffic crossings. Steps could still be taken to lessen the blackouts, but voters wouldn't know the difference, and it's so much easier to cast blame. Gov. Gray Davis prates about a ""war with Texas."" And who knows what secret failures as a human being led Bill Lockyer, the attorney general, to threaten Enron's Ken Lay with homosexual rape in the California prison system. California has found itself singularly lacking in heroes in its hour of crisis. Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Davis harp on price, but the true problem is the unavailability of power at any price to meet the demand that exists under the current structure of retail rates. Both must know the solution they noisily advocate, federal price controls slapped across Western electricity markets, wouldn't bring power into existence to close the gap. Their proposal would simply saddle the feds with the dirty job of apportioning blackouts from California's mistakes across half a dozen other states. In California itself, municipal utilities in Santa Clara, Palo Alto and other towns have already announced they won't participate in rolling blackouts. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power certainly isn't volunteering. Why should voters in other states? Why not just cut the lines and let California monopolize the darkness? A state review board in Washington has already vetoed a proposed plant rather than suffer local pollution for power destined for California. Mr. Davis knows this; he knows price controls would create a new problem without solving the shortages. Meanwhile, the specter nobody wants to talk about is the state of California itself headed for bankruptcy if it continues to be willing to pay any price to satisfy the demand of consumers shielded from the true cost of power. Mr. Davis's version of the Big Lie is that Texas is to blame. Texas companies account for just 12% of California's supply, having bought 7,000 of the 20,000 megawatts that local utilities were forced to sell under ""deregulation."" Being in the right place at the right time has always been profitable, but any windfall has been spread widely among suppliers of gas, pipeline capacity, storage and ancillary services. Take Enron: Its revenues quadrupled in the past year, but so did its costs, and profits are up only 31%. A leaked California memo names as two of the biggest ""gougers"" BC Hydro, owned by Canadian taxpayers, and the U.S. Bonneville Power Administration. Their sin was letting their reservoirs fill up overnight while meeting local needs with spot-market power, so they could sell their own production for higher prices to California during the day. These are precisely efforts that might stop if price controls were imposed across the West, making the shortages worse, probably much worse. Northwestern smelters might be better off reclaiming the cheap hydro they've been passing on to California -- 3,000 megawatts, enough for two million homes. Farmers could resume irrigating. Seattle, Tacoma, Boise and other neighbors have all done what California has failed yet to do, hiking rates to curb demand. Rather than emulate them, Gov. Davis's peacock of an energy czar, David Freeman, babbles about ""public power,"" the answer to a question nobody asked, the solution to a nonexistent problem. Prices of electricity and natural gas for future delivery are already falling as investors race to build new plants and pipelines to meet the state's future needs. Markets foresee the crisis ending without Mr. Freeman's antique New Deal schemes. What's been missing while folks like him ride their hobby horses, though, is the courage to take steps necessary to minimize the suffering this summer. One large source of untapped power is California's own small generators, known as qualifying facilities. Their fee scale is set by the state, but California couldn't even summon the political competence to keep them in business, so 3,000 megawatts sit idle. People have tried to attach all kinds of ideological baggage to the California mess, but we wouldn't be here if water flows in the Columbia River system weren't down 54% from normal. Last summer, California's fossil-fuel generators increased their output by a whopping 62% to make up the shortfall, mostly by running existing plants harder. Yes, there have been flaky prices, partly because, mysteriously, California continues to use a discredited computer program to book a large chunk of its power one hour in advance. But the flaky prices also represent a system pulling out all stops to save California from itself. We said back in December there's only one solution: Jack up rates to stop consumers trying to burn more power than the state can beg, borrow or steal. The only question was when Gov. Davis would find the courage. Hard to believe, but the price hikes his regulators approved in March are still on the drawing board and busily being watered down. Someone should point out to Gov. Davis that the author of ""Profiles in Courage"" wasn't endorsing career suicide but suggesting that politicians must husband their leadership for times when it really counts. Not a few people in public life understand this. Al Gore openly yearned for the day when he could justify the compromises and trimming he's done in his life. But Mr. Davis is perhaps too lost in the dark to understand he is blowing the whole reason to have a political career. What borders on the stupefying, though, is the failure of any other Californian of prominence to step forward and speak truth about the power crisis. By all rights Gov. Davis should be a political leper, yet he actually stands a microscopic chance of being re-elected because of the sheer poverty, in a state of 34 million people, of the Republican opposition. Arnold Schwarzenegger is looking better all the time. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial) California Squeaks By 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A26 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) The California energy crisis is now more than a year old and Governor Gray Davis has done nothing but squeak at it. At first, he attacked out-of-state power generators for being pirates and marauders. But lately he has focused on FERC and President Bush, demanding that the federal government place price caps on the sale of wholesale power. He's even rustled up 10 economists -- including the dad of deregulation, Alfred Kahn -- to support him. Well, as most everybody knows -- including the economists who have come out in favor of them -- price caps don't work. If caps are set too low, (as politics often dictate), existing supply will shrink and demand will grow, making the situation worse. Even ""correctly"" set price caps will discourage additional supply and do nothing to moderate demand. The usual result is an aggravation of shortages and rationing. Indeed, the history of price caps, particularly during the energy crisis in the early 1970s -- when oil prices were capped and lines at gasoline stations were long -- bears this out. The pro-price-caps argument however is a clever one. It rests on the notion that there is no ""effective competition"" in the California energy market. According to one of the 10 pro-price-cap economists, Paul Joskow at MIT, the energy market in California is characterized by inelastic demand and very, very tight supplies, which conspire to produce, at certain times, prices above those that would have obtained under competitive conditions. Mr. Joskow examined the California energy market during the summer of 2000, looking at market fundamentals (the broad forces determining supply and demand); he found that 25% to 30% of the wholesale prices of electricity during June, July and August cannot be explained by market fundamentals and should be attributed to market imperfections. As an argument for price caps, this is hardly overwhelming. Especially since there are several perfectly respectable and compelling reasons to look no further than market fundamentals. Such as the fact that the price of the most important input for almost half the electricity generated in California, natural gas, has been rising over the past year. Such as the fact that natural gas pipelines are filled to capacity, thus bidding up the price to transmit. Such as the fact that the worst drought in the Northwest in 60 years has reduced the amount of hydroelectric power in the market, putting even more demands on natural gas generation. Such as the fact that imports into the state, which were running 20% and up to 25% during peak usage, have declined. And the fact that the price of tradable permits for NOx emissions -- which must be held by plants generating electricity -- has skyrocketed. Not least the fact that demand in California during the past several years, unfettered by rate increases, has zoomed dramatically. At any rate, electric power is increasingly expensive all over the country; indeed, California's neighbors, the states of Washington, Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Montana, have had to bump up utility rates 30% to 50%. So where is the tablet of stone saying that California, with its especially restrictive environmental regulations, should be any different? The bad news for California is that, poor dears, it can't be different. Market fundamentals, like supply and demand, rule. But that's also the good news. High wholesale prices (and necessary profits) have done their job; they have brought forth a number of suppliers, in the form of more than a dozen plans for significant new generating plants; in fact, plans have even been announced to build more natural gas transmission pipelines. Too, demand has started to abate; peak demand on a monthly basis has fallen 4% to 9% from last year, doubtless a response to a ""temporary"" 10% rate hike in January and the California Public Utilities Commission's decision in March to finally really, really raise rates by as much as 50% on average. (The details of that plan were announced in May and rate increases will show up on this month's bills.) So California's blame-shifting pols can point fingers til the state freezes over. The market is working, and imposing price caps would not only interrupt that process, but would be unnecessary. Of course, there is a painful lag between the market signals of high prices due to shortages and the market remedies of increased supply and lower demand. And California will probably feel lots of that pain this summer in the form of continued high prices and blackouts. But, in the long run, the market will be successful in creating new supply and lower prices. Unfortunately California's energy glut will probably come too late to avoid a siege of political spinning and demagoguery. Ultimately we have to hope Californians will understand it is their politics that has served them poorly. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Litigation weekly conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. today has been cancelled. Also, please note there will not be a call on Thursday, June 15. Thank you. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 
FYI again. gngr 713-853-7751 
There will not be a call on Thursday, June 14. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 janette.elbertson@enron.com 
The California Litigation weekly conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. today has been cancelled. Also, please note there will not be a call on Thursday, June 15. Thank you. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 janette.elbertson@enron.com 
Okay golfers, a tournament of sorts will be played in Colorado.  I need to know the following: 1)  average score And, I need to know this ASAP.  I will have the tournament director help with putting the teams together. Thanks for all your help! gngr 713-853-7751 
Howdy Golfers, I need some information before you all play your ""par"" game of golf next week. 1) Will you be bringing your own golf clubs? 2) If I need to reserve clubs for you, please let me know if you are right or left handed. Thanks!!!!!! gngr 
Hello Everyone: Next week is around the corner and I want to inform each of you of some details. Location:  Omni Interlocken 500 Interlocken Boulevard Broomfield, CO  80021 Phone#:303-438-6600 Fax#:303-438-7224 Check-in time  3:00 p.m. Check-out time  12:00 p.m. (Noon) Shuttle Service & Driving Directions:  Each person is responsible for their own transportation to/from the airport.  Please see the attached airport shuttle schedule. - SuperShuttle.doc - Directions from DIA with map.doc Meeting Place on morning of June 14:  The meeting will take place in ""Interlocken A"" conference room.  The meeting will begin @ 8:15 AM and will conclude by 11:30 am.  A continental breakfast will be served beginning at 7:00 am. Agenda: Lunch:  I have made arrangements for Box Lunches to be available for everyone directly after the meeting.  They will be served outside of the meeting room at 11:30 AM. Attire:   I'm all for CASUAL Golf:  Tee times are set as follows: 12:39, 12:48, 12:57, 1:06, 1:15, & 1:24pm.  The Eldorado is the course you will be playing on.  A shuttle has been scheduled to pick up everyone beginning at 11:45 am.  All golfers are to check in at the golf shop; from there your clubs and carts will be assigned.   I will e:mail the teams list next week, along with your tee time.  Golf attire: Proper golf attire includes golf slacks, golf shorts, and spikeless golf shoes.  Men must wear collared shirts, and women must wear ""golf appropriate"" shirts.  Player's not conforming to this policy will not be given access to the golf course. Whitewater Rafting: A deluxe motorcoach is scheduled to pick-up the rafters at 12:30 pm at the East Entrance/Garden level of the resort.  Folks, the water will be cold; it might be a good idea to take a towel or jacket for the ride back to the resort.  Also, rivershoes are recommended for this activity, as well as, sunscreen and hats.   No cotton or flip-flop sandals.  Have Fun!!!! Hiking: A deluxe motorcoach is scheduled to pick-up the hikers at 12:30 pm at the East Entrance/Garden Level of the resort.  Please check the attached link for a weather update below.   Recommended attire:  Shorts or hiking attire, appropriate footwear, sunglasses, sunscreen and hats. Spa Services:  If you have not made your spa arrangements, please do so soon.  The number to call for spa services is 303-438-6600 Dinner:  A buffet dinner will be served at the fairways tent (at the golf course).  You can't miss it!!!!!  Your choice of transportation to the golf course is up to you.  You can either walk (about 1 mile on sidewalk) or take the shuttle.   It is best to request the service 15-20 minutes prior to dinner time or drinks time.   Dinner will begin at 7:00pm and wine & beer will be served 30 minutes prior. Weather: Please click on the attached link for a Colorado weather update. http://www.weather.com/weather/local/USCO0105 Final Reservation/Activity List:  Attached is the final list of arrivals/departures, as well as, activities everyone is participating in. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call if you have any questions. gngr 
FYI 
Please see the attached, from Sue Nord, and respond by Friday, September 29. Ginger Dernehl Government Affairs-The Americas 713-853-7751 
As Rick mentioned at the staff meeting in DC, we are compiling a list of suggested names for Presidential appointments under either a Bush or a Gore administration.  Please forward your suggestions, along with a sentence or two explaining why you are recommending an individual, no later than Friday, September 29.  Also, if there are potential candidates about whom we should be concerned, please forward that information. The attached documents describe the current make-up of various federal commissions, including the party affiliation and term dates for current members.   Cabinet and agency appointments are listed as well. Please send your recommendations directly to Ginger, either in hard copy or electronically.  Thanks in advance for your input. 
The meeting is upon us and I will keep everyone posted on the weather.  I was told yesterday that it was in the high 70's during the day and in the low 40's  during the night.  But we know how that darn weather is.  Anyway, our stay at the hotel is located on the ""west"" side of the Broadmoor.  There are two main buildings to the Broadmoor so be sure to mention the ""west"" side when you arrive.  The meetings will take place in the Gaylord Board Room beginning at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm on Thursday and Friday, November 18 & 19. Transportation: Airport transportation from the Colorado Springs Airport is available through the Broadmoor Transportation Service.  The number is 719-577-5769. Fares: $10.50 per person one way $20.00 per person round trip The Broadmoor Transportation Desk at the Colorado Springs Airport is staffed daily from 9:00am-11:30pm.  The desk is located at the base of the escalator in the Baggage Claim area, across from Baggage Terminal #3 (next to theHertz desk).  Airport transportation is by reservation only. Also, below I have listed everyone's confirmation #'s.  Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr Joe Allen  7112261 Scott Bolton  7112275 Jeff Brown  7112276 Aleck Dadson  7112262 Jeff Dasovich  7112281 Joe Hartsoe  7112268 Paul Kaufman  7112277 Harry Kingerski  7112263 Kathleen Magruder 7112264 Sue Mara  7112278 Janine Migden  7112279 Steve Montovano 7112265 Sue Nord  7112280 Rick Shapiro  7112266 
One more thing, Continental Breakfast, in the Gaylord Room, will be available beginning at 7:30am on Thursday & Friday. gngr 
The meeting is upon us and I will keep everyone posted on the weather.  I was told yesterday that it was in the high 70's during the day and in the low 40's  during the night.  But we know how that darn weather is.  Anyway, our stay at the hotel is located on the ""west"" side of the Broadmoor.  There are two main buildings to the Broadmoor so be sure to mention the ""west"" side when you arrive.  The meetings will take place in the Gaylord Board Room beginning at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm on Thursday and Friday, November 18 & 19. Transportation: Airport transportation from the Colorado Springs Airport is available through the Broadmoor Transportation Service.  The number is 719-577-5769. Fares: $10.50 per person one way $20.00 per person round trip The Broadmoor Transportation Desk at the Colorado Springs Airport is staffed daily from 9:00am-11:30pm.  The desk is located at the base of the escalator in the Baggage Claim area, across from Baggage Terminal #3 (next to theHertz desk).  Airport transportation is by reservation only. Also, below I have listed everyone's confirmation #'s.  Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr Joe Allen  7112261 Scott Bolton  7112275 Jeff Brown  7112276 Aleck Dadson  7112262 Jeff Dasovich  7112281 Joe Hartsoe  7112268 Paul Kaufman  7112277 Harry Kingerski  7112263 Kathleen Magruder 7112264 Sue Mara  7112278 Janine Migden  7112279 Steve Montovano 7112265 Sue Nord  7112280 Rick Shapiro  7112266 Jim Steffes  7366163 
FYI Ginger Dernehl Government Affairs-The Americas 713-853-7751 
Tom Hoatson has a new cell phone number now.  He asked that you let the group know. #973-951-1770 Also, as you can see I finally have email now.  If you could replace Sharon Eley's email address with mine that would be appreciated.  Everything else is the same; location, phone number, extension, etc.  Again, I am the new Admin Asst. directly reporting to Frank Rishe but also taking care of Tom Hoatson and Dan Staines.  Thank you! 
Here are  the files from the Broadmoor.  Please call me if you have any questions. 
Jeff, I do have a copy but I'm not in the office today.  Ask Joseph if he has a copy, I think I forwarded one there.  Also, attached is the legal letter template that we use for retainment.  Use this document and make the necessary changes.  If changes are drastic, we will need to get it approved by Sharon Butler in Legal.  I will be checking e:mail periodically, so e:mail if you need anything further.  Have a GREAT TURKEY DAY!!!!!!! gngr Jeff Dasovich on 11/22/99 05:24:56 PM 
left you a voice mail.  need to draft an engagement letter for the attorney we've hired for ECI in california.  do you have a copy of the final version of the engagement letter drafted to retain rochelle chong in california?  if so, thought i'd crib from it.  thanks, jeff 
This is a great time to be at Enron. The challenges and opportunities at=20 Enron seem to be expanding with every passing day.  This presents enormous= =20 challenges for Government Affairs as a group and for each of us=20 individually.  As we discussed at the staff meeting last month, this requir= es=20 us to constantly reevaluate our priorities, our methods of getting things= =20 done, and whether our organization is properly structured to meet the needs= =20 of the entire company.  While we have done an outstanding job as a group=20 within our current structure, changes are necessary at this time. The primary change in the organizational structure is to complete the=20 assignments for and reinforce the leadership roles of the individuals withi= n=20 the group who have primary responsibility for setting the Government Affair= s=20 strategy and agenda for the respective Enron operating companies.  The belo= w=20 mentioned individuals will have the following responsibilities: 1. Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets:  Jim Steffes 2. The Enron Energy Services Group of Companies:  Harry Kingerski 3. Enron Broadband Services:  Sue Nord 4. Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks:  Lisa Yoho 5. Enron South America:  Jose Bestard 6. Federal Government Affairs:  Linda Robertson With the impending retirement on March 31, 2001 of Joe Hillings, I am pleas= ed=20 to announce that Linda Robertson will be joining the office on November 6,= =20 2000, as a Vice President who will immediately assume responsibility for=20 leading the Federal Government Affairs group in our Washington office.  Lin= da=20 was a Congressional staffer and partner/principal in two Washington law fir= ms=20 prior to spending the last eight years with the U.S. Department of Treasury= ,=20 the last five as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs and Public=20 Liaison, for Secretaries Rubin & Summers.  Linda brings a terrific=20 background, both in energy and financial services, and is a welcome additio= n=20 to our team.  In order to more effectively integrate the Government Affairs= =20 groups and strategy in Washington, the Federal Regulatory Affairs group und= er=20 Joe Hartsoe=01,s direction will also report to Linda.  Joe Hartsoe will als= o=20 retain primary responsibility for NERC activities, although Charles Yeung a= nd=20 Dick Ingersoll will have a dotted line reporting relationship to Jim Steffe= s=20 in his capacity of directing our activities for ENA.  Ray Alvarez will be= =20 transferring from his current role with Transredes in Bolivia during the 1s= t=20 quarter of 2001 and will join the Federal Regulatory Affairs group, reporti= ng=20 to Joe Hartsoe. On a personal note, I would like to acknowledge the significant contributio= ns=20 that Joe Hillings has made to this company in his eighteen years of service= . =20 Joe=01,s work ethic, intellect, and integrity have established Enron as a= =20 company that is respected throughout Washington.  I will have more to say= =20 about this as Joe=01,s retirement draws closer, but I look to him to be a v= ital=20 part of the leadership transition in our Washington office that will occur= =20 over the next days and weeks. I will be relying heavily on the above-identified six individuals to ensure= =20 that Government Affairs is firmly embedded within each of our operating=20 companies; that we as a group thoroughly understand their current business= =20 strategies as well as new directions they may be taking in the future; and,= =20 most importantly, to thoroughly understand how our organization can=20 contribute and add value to each of these companies on a continuing basis. = =20 Communicating that understanding on a regular basis to the rest of the=20 Government Affairs organization and developing a Government Affairs wide=20 execution strategy will be a key objective for each of these individuals. In order to ensure the success of these individuals and the Government=20 Affairs organization; the following changes are being made. In addition to his leadership role with Government Affairs on behalf of the= =20 EES group of companies, Harry Kingerski will continue to head up the=20 rates/regulatory group, now renamed Government Affairs Support Services.  = =20 This group will continue to provide valuable technical support services=20 throughout Government Affairs and will be expanding its scope of expertise= =20 over the next months to some of the new markets that the company has and wi= ll=20 soon be entering.  Nancy Hetrick and Vinio Floris will join this organizati= on=20 and report to Harry. Jeff Brown, Tom Delaney, Mary Hain, Ron McNamara, Christi Nicolay, Thane=20 Twiggs, and Steve Walton will now report to Jim Steffes in his role=20 supporting Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets. Alberto Levy= =20 will be relocating from our Caracas, Venezuela office and will also report = to=20 Jim.  A couple of special mentions:  Jeff Brown has done an outstanding job= =20 in leading the CUBR (Coalition for Uniform Business Rules) process over the= =20 last year and his current leadership of the Midwest ISO and Alliance RTO=20 efforts for Enron will be critical to the development of well functioning= =20 wholesale electric markets in the U.S.  It is also my hope that Steve Walto= n=20 will play an increased leadership role across North America on wholesale=20 electric market issues.  The incredible knowledge that Steve Walton possess= es=20 of the electric industry, coupled with his industry-wide credibility, will= =20 provide much needed support to our wholesale electric market reform efforts= =20 across North America. Tom Hoatson will now report to Steve Montovano in his new role in supportin= g=20 the company=01,s efforts at PJM.  Tom will also continue to be an=20 organization-wide resource on technical issues regarding generation=20 interconnection and distributed generation.  Kathleen Sullivan has recently= =20 joined Steve=01,s group from Azurix and will be primarily assisting Howard= =20 Fromer in New York. Sue Nord will head up the group that supports EBS.  Scott Bolton and Donald= =20 Lassere, while reporting to Sue, will continue to provide leadership on=20 telecommunications issues.  Scott and Donald have done outstanding work and= =20 will continue to be integral to our efforts in this area. Finally, the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process, beginning 1/1/01, wi= ll=20 be extended to all of Government Affairs in North America, including Federa= l=20 Government Affairs and Mexico.  The RCR Committee, beginning immediately,= =20 will be expanded and will consist of Harry Kingerski, Sue Nord,  Linda=20 Roberston, Jim Steffes, Lisa Yoho & myself. Please feel free to call me if you have any questions. 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline 
gngr 713-853-7751 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline DOE and NARUC are hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring on November 29 to December 1 in Dallas. More information is available at http://www.energymarkets.org. Just a quick note to remind you that the early registration discount deadline is Friday, October 27.  To register, go to http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/NA_Summit/registration.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in this event. 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - could you please send a note to the group advising that my new e-mail address is: Lysa.Tracy@enron.com Lysa AKIN has been removed from the address book. Thanks, Ginger! Lysa Tracy Gov't Affairs Admin. (Portland Office) 503/464-7927 
The RCR meeting today at 12:00 pm (noon) CDT has been rescheduled for 1:30 pm CDT TODAY!!!  Please note the time change.  The dial in number will remain the same (1-800-283-1805). Thanks gngr 
My apologies for all the changes but, I am rescheduling the RCR call for tomorrow, Tuesday, June 12 @ 4:00pm CDT.  The dial in number will remain 1-800-283-1805. Thanks! gngr 713-853-7751 
The RCR meeting today at 12:00 pm (noon) CDT has been rescheduled for 1:30 pm CDT TODAY!!!  Please note the time change.  The dial in number will remain the same (1-800-283-1805). Thanks gngr 
Please see the question from Elizabeth below and respond directly back to her. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - Please forward this question to Rick's group: We're in the process of converting the Project Tracking/RCR database from Lotus Notes to a web-based application.  One of the questions the team has asked is whether anyone replicates the database to work offline, and then replicate back to the network.  If you do this, please let me know as soon as possible.  Thanks! Elizabeth 
If, at any time, it is necessary for anyone in Enron Government Affairs- The Americas  to contact elected or appointed officials (or staff) of the Federal Government ,e.g;FERC, FCC, CFTC, State Department, Congress, The White House etc.., you must  make every effort to  to contact someone from the Federal Government Affairs( now also includes Federal RegulatoryAffairs) group in the DC office before any such  contact is made.The purpose of this memo is not to discourage or prohibit individuals in the group  from calling their contacts in Washington, but rather to make sure we are fully coordinated and 
To ensure privacy for the California Team call, which takes place on Tuesday's and Thursday's, the passcode information for the call has been changed.  Please make note of the change on your schedules.  This change will take place immediately. 
Please mark your schedules to note the change in the dial-in information for the call mentioned above.  This change will take place immediately. 
Rick asked that I get the US/Canada Goverment Affairs ""Working Group"" list to everyone, so here it is! gngr 
The RCR call scheduled for Monday, June 25 will take place at 4:00pm CDT. Please make note of this on your schedules. Thanks! gngr 
As promised, please find attached the presentations from the GA meeting in Colorado, June 14, 2001. gngr 
Request from Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes In the future, if  you schedule a tour of the gas & power trading floors at Enron, and you DO NOT go through experienceENRON to arrange for the tour(s), it is ""MANDATORY"" that you contact Christi Nicolay (x37007) before visiting the trading floors. gngr 
The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting will be held in Houston, TX at the DoubleTree Hotel on Friday, December 8, 2000.  A block of rooms has been reserved under ""Enron Corp - Government Affairs"" and each individual is required to make their own reservation.  The group dinner will be held on Thursday, December 7 at Ruggles Restaurant, Enron Field at 7:00pm.  Please let me know of your plans to attend the dinner and meeting by Wednesday, November 15. Hotel information below: DoubleTree Hotel 400 Dallas Street Houston, TX 77002 713-759-0202  Phone # 713-654-0727  Fax# Additional information regarding the meeting will follow, but please remember to make your reservation and call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Lysa Tracy/ENRON@enronXgate 06/29/2001 05:21 PM =20 
Ginger - please distribute to the GA Group. =01; Paul Kaufman's SkyTel Pager has been canceled.=01; The phone number 888/916= -2262=20 is NO LONGER VALID. =01; Until further notice, please contact me at the number below, and I'll be=20 happy to page Paul with a text message. =01; Thanks! =01; =01; Lysa D. Tracy Sr. Admin. Ass't. Government Affairs 121 SW Salmon - 3WTC0306 Portland, OR=01; 97204 phone: 503/464-7927 fax: 503/464-3740 email: lysa.tracy@enron.com <mailto:lysa.tracy@enron.com> 
Please mark your calendar's for the next ""Budget/Priority"" Meeting.  Rick has chosen the following dates and location: Dates:  Arrive evening of Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2001 Meeting Thursday, Nov. 8, 2001 --- 8:00 AM - 1:00 PM Meeting Friday, Nov. 9, 2001--- 8:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: The Broadmoor One Lake Avenue Colorado Springs, CO 80906 719-634-7711 Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Rick Shapiro will be hosting a conference call today regarding the above subject.  Please see details below: 
Jeff, is this it? gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Campaign Leadership conference call scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, July 12, has been postponed until Monday, July 16 @ 4:00 PM (CDT). The dial number will remain 1-800-998-2462 (passcode = 5316376) Thanks! gngr 
The next scheduled RCR meeting will take place as follows: 
Jeff, Here is the Linda Robertson call for Monday's. gngr 713-853-7751 
AGENDA Weekly Consultants Meeting Monday, July 16, 2001 4:00 PM EST Enron Offices Conference Call-In Number:  800-713-8600; Code 6261 - Agenda 071601.doc 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The Government Affairs group continues to have a weekly California update conference call every Monday at 10:30 am (CDT).  However, we have decided to change the passcode information to ensure Enron privacy.  Please make note of the new passcode on your schedules. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please mark your schedules to note the change in the dial-in information for the call mentioned above.  This change will take place immediately. 
Below are the dates for the upcoming year ""2000"" calls for the US/Canada Government Affairs group.  Please mark your calendars accordingly. January 6, 2000 (Thursday, 9:00am cst)  Mandatory Call (Just a reminder) 1-800-283-1805 2000 US/Canada Government Affairs Department Conference Calls January 28  (Friday) February 25  (Friday) March 24  (Friday) April 21  (Friday) May 19  (Friday) June 16  (Friday) July 14  (Friday) August 11  (Friday) September 8  (Friday) October 6  (Friday) November 3  (Friday) December 1  (Friday) December 29  (Friday) The call in number will be 1-800-283-1805 and the calls will take place at 9:00am cst. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Litigation Team weekly conference call scheduled for today at 
I am pleased to announce that effective July 1st the following individuals have been promoted from Director to Senior Director. Dan Allegretti - Dan has been a leader on both retail and wholesale electricity issues in New England for the past several years with Enron, resulting in Dan currently serving as Chair of the New England Power Pool Participants Committee.  Dan, more importantly, has been very active, both in the past and during the course of this year, in ensuring that transactional opportunities in the New England region are fully exploited by both Enron Wholesale Services and Enron Energy Services.  Dan's participation in the United Illuminating deal has been mentioned many times, but Dan has also played a critical role in working with Enron Energy Services this year in helping to develop a national business plan for creating value through the delivery of retail services in partnership with municipal and privately owned utilities. Robert Hemstock - Rob's participation in the development of Alberta's competitive electricity market and the ensuing PPA project, that has produced considerable value for Enron and Enron Canada has been quite notable.  Rob has been a leader, not only with policy makers, but also with his commercial counterparts in ensuring that the PPA transaction was brought to fruition last year.  Rob has also played a critical role in preserving the value embedded in that deal throughout the course of this year.  Rob's knowledge of both wholesale and retail issues in both the natural gas and electricity industries in Western Canada is unparalleled. Sue Mara - Sue is a warrior.  Sue has fought endlessly and courageously during her years with Enron in trying to ensure, against all odds, that retail and wholesale electricity markets work as effectively as possible in California while also protecting Enron's interests in that very challenging state.  Sue is a passionate believer in the efficacy of markets, and fights tirelessly for both the issues as well as the well-being of the company in California. Please join me in congratulating each of these individuals on their significant accomplishments. 
I have rescheduled the Global Government Affairs Conference call to Thursday, July 26 @ 4:00 PM (CDT).  This call was originally scheduled for this past Friday, July 20.  See details below: 
It has been decided that this call will now take place on a bi-weekly basis. Below are the dates for the upcoming calls, so please mark your calendars accordingly. Dates for Upcoming Leadership Calls: Monday, July 30 Monday, August 13 & 27 Monday, September 10 & 24 Monday, October 8 & 22 Monday, November 5 & 19 Monday, December 3, 17 & 31 Time for Upcoming Leadership Calls: 10:00 AM (CDT) Number: 1-800-998-2462 pass code 5316376 Also, as a reminder, these calls are mandatory.  If you are unable to attend please let both Rick & I know. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Originally we had scheduled a department meeting for the month of September. This particular meeting will no longer take place.  The next scheduled department meeting will be held in Houston, TX on Friday, December 7 and will be held at the Woodlands Conference Center. Thanks! Original message (below) sent January 25, 2001 My apologies in getting this information to everyone so late, but some of the dates are still a work in progress.  Please see below: Government Affairs - The Americas Department Meeting Dates for Year 2001 
James D Steffes 11/02/2000 06:13 PM 
Ginger -- Can you please distribute to all of Rick's group. 1. Talking Points 2. FERC Order Summary 
Please forward to Gov't Affairs group. Enron North America Corp. 
Systems 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 11/10/2000 03:22 PM 
Systems Please forward this to Rick's group.  Thanks. Please note that these FERC staff reports contain some potentially helpful information that can be used at the state PUC level, including information on the increase in generation in the Midwest that market participants attribute to lack of price caps following the summer 1998 price spikes; better preparation for summer 2000 through the use of forward contracts and transmission problems that may have resulted in keeping cheaper power from particular markets. On 11/1/00, FERC Staff issued reports on its Investigation of Bulk Power Markets in the Eastern Interconnection.  These reports were the result of a Commission order earlier this summer.  Enron's Federal regulatory staff (Christi, Charles Yeung, and Sarah Novosel) provided a great deal of information for this investigation and Joe Hartsoe and Donna Fulton discussed many of the problems with the grid with the new head of Staff, Scott Miller (who recently joined FERC from PG&E Gen).    While the Commission is under no obligation to take any of Staff's recommendations, the Commission typically looks to Staff for guidance on transmission and market issues.  Importantly, Staff concludes that the Commission should consider these options for the Southeast and Midwest -- all of which Enron has been asking FERC to implement for several years: Reduce the advantages of network service over point to point service by requiring that native load be served under the same tariff as other transmission services to eliminate the current incentives that VIUs have to favor their native load through the calculation of ATC and handling of interconnection requests. While the Staff Hotline is used productively, the Commission can direct Staff to conduct formal investigations into entities that have a pattern of complaints. The Commission could require TPs to submit tariff provisions containing a pro forma interconnection process specific to interconnection, rather than simply relying on the Tennessee Power order that utilizes the OATT timelines and procedures. Require TPs to retain real-time transmission data on market functions pertaining to daily load, internal generation to meet that load, and imports and exports. RTOs should submit the basis and methods for calculating ATC and TTC, as well as standardized criteria for curtailment.  In addition, since even such standardized criteria might not ""get to the root of the problem"" -- that control area still control generation -- the Commission could require that each RTO set a date certain by which it will create one control area. Regardless of the implementation of these two options, the Commission could standardize ATC and TTC methodology. Staff finds that while electricity is a commodity with market characteristics similar to many other commodities, it is still viewed as ""different,"" with a reaction of price caps.  Staff encourages that basic decisions about the regulatory model be made in order to complete the transition from a traditional cost-of-service model to a model that uses markets to price the commodity and services. DETAILS  (Also, the reports contain good summaries of the generation, transmission, state retail, federal reg. and other issues for the region): Midwest:  The Midwest is dominated by vertically integrated Transmission Providers (""TPs"") that control transmission, generation and load.  ""As such, they have weak economic incentives to provide access to transmission service to third-parties and strong incentives to favor their own services.""  Staff received numerous complaints; however, due to the lack of information available from TPs, Staff cannot conclude whether these are isolated incidents or wide-spread.  At the very least, the complaints indicate a lack of confidence in the bulk power market and the ability of market participants to rely on transmission access, thus harming the liquidity of the market. TLRs are the most important transmission issue in the Midwest, with an ""enormous"" increase in 2000.  The region showed a decline in peak load from 1999 to 2000 and a growth in new generation since the 1998 price spikes. Even though there was an increase in generation and mild weather with virtually no price spikes, TLRs climbed to record numbers.  The TLRs were highly concentrated:  only 5 flowgates account for 41% of ECAR TLRs and another 5 flowgates in MAIN account for 42% in that region.  Notably, even though the NERC procedures for Level 3 TLRs mandate transaction curtailment, 78 of the 191 TLRs in the Midwest do not show any curtailment amount.  The total amount of relief that these curtailments are intended to produce are not posted.  Staff notes that TLR rules are established by NERC, whose procedures are voluntary and not enforced by penalties.  While the Commission has required certain NERC standards and procedures to be placed in Open Access Transmission Tariffs (""OATT"") where the Commission has the power to enforce provisions under the Federal Power Act, in practice the Commission has generally deferred to NERC on transmission reliability questions, including the propriety of TLRs. TLRs inhibit optimal functioning of the transmission system and market because load is not served by the least cost supplier.  TLR procedure is an inefficient instrument in mitigating constraints -- curtailment by fiat.  In addition, the NERC IDC can result in inappropriate curtailments or increased loading on the affected flowgate.  The impact could be mitigated by one control area per RTO. Staff notes that the Midwest state commissions did not petition FERC for price caps following the 1998 price spikes.  Some market participants believe that the absence of price spikes is the single reason that NUG construction increased in the Midwest. Market participants must keep track of, and follow, a plethora of information in order to make energy deals, submit reservations and provide schedules for service.  Staff received many complaints about barriers to transmission access, including TLR curtailments and a lack of standardized information and protocols, particularly for ATC and interconnection requests, and discriminatory conduct.  Unbelievably, key data was unavailable to Staff, such coincident peak load data, system-wide snap shots for days when TLRs were called, and import/export data.  This lack of data creates a market inefficiency, because neither market participants nor regulators can fully analyze market conditions in real time.  As such, the market is risk adverse, eschewing long-term deals for short-term transactions.  Staff also noted that because the Security Coordinators often work for the IOU, there is a mixed incentive to enforce reliability on the grid and maximize profit for the IOU.  (Staff cites Richard Tabors' paper, ""Transmission Markets, Stretching the Rules for Fun and Profit."") Staff cites the lack of information on OASIS or on the NERC web site, particularly about real time TLRs and curtailments.  Examples were provided to Staff of transmission refusals when there were no TLRs posted and improper implementation of TLRs causing substantial financial loss. The currently proposed Midwest RTOs may mitigate some problems; however, all three retain existing control areas with the favortism for generation and native load.  These incentives will continue to remain until the RTO exercises complete autonomy over transmission control and security coordinator functions.  Staff notes that the Midwest is a balkanized region of 61 control areas with no uniform method for calculating ATC and CBM.  The result is that ATCs can be different on 2 different sides of an interface. Staff notes examples in inaccurate ATCs and states that Staff's own ATC audit this summer was consistent with market participant complaints.  Staff is weighing follow-up options.  The result of these problems is a lack of liquidity. Staff next noted the problems with unfiled ""business practices,"" especially on the next hour market.  Staff's audit of OASIS sites revealed several areas of non-compliance. Information transparency is necessary for a market to function efficiently, with equal and timely access to data, including ATC, CBM, TRM, and load flow input data.  TPs have incentives to resist efforts to make this information transparent because of native load.  This incentive will still exist under RTOs if utilities are allowed to calculate their own ATC.  ***  ""As a consequence, the Commission may wish to eliminate the native load exemption and have all transactions under the same tariff.""  ***  The Commission could benefit by having access to existing transmission data and should require the TPs to retain data, including current real-time network status. Interconnection Issues:  IPPs need to be compensated for VAR support.  Also, Staff cites a number of Hotline complaints about TPs seeking large deposits or failing to complete System Impact Studies timely.  One solution is to have the RTO handle this function to eliminate the disincentive the utilities have against IPPs.  The current practice of requiring IPPs to deal with a wide variety of procedures inhibits the free flow of transactions within the region. Network service has inherent advantages over point-to-point, citing the 
online bulletin board 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
online bulletin board [[ MAPI 1.0 storage : 5416 in winmail.dat ]] NARUC and DOE are the hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring in Dallas, Texas, on November 29 to December 1.  This email is an update on recent developments in the Summit. Newly confirmed speakers include Commissioner Linda Breathitt, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), chairman of the House Energy and Power Subcommittee; Phil Sharp, Lecturer in Public Policy, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University; Kurt Yaeger, president and CEO, Electric Power Research Institute; Bob Anderson, commissioner, Montana Public Service Commission; Karen O'Neill, vice president for new markets, GreenMountain.com; Steve Ward, public advocate, Maine Attorney General's office; Donato Eassay, vice president, securities research and economics, Merrill Lynch; Rick Rumbarger, president and CEO, PowerTrust.com; Kathleen Magruder, Vice President, Government Affairs, The New Power Company (a joint venture of IBM, Enron, and AOL) We have established a bulletin board for the Summit.  You can access the bulletin board through the following link: http://www.energymarkets.org/cgi-bin/Ultimate.cgi?action=intro.  The Forums in this board will permit you to ask questions or raise issues for the speakers on each of the panels at the Summit. You can register for the Summit at http://www.energymarkets.org/registration.htm. Information on reserving a room a the Adams Mark is at http://www.energymarkets.org/city_site.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in the subject of the Summit. Thanks! Isabel Barreto North American Summit Coordinator Center for the Advancement of Energy Markets 5765-F Burke Center Parkway (PMB333) Burke, VA 22015-2233 Voicemail and Fax: (703) 234-3373 E-mail: ibarreto@caem.org http://www.caem.org Thanks! Isabel Barreto North American Summit Coordinator Center for the Advancement of Energy Markets 5765-F Burke Center Parkway (PMB333) Burke, VA 22015-2233 Voicemail and Fax: (703) 234-3373 E-mail: ibarreto@caem.org http://www.caem.org 
FYI - see e:mail below from Sarah Novosel. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate this summary to everyone in government affairs. = =20 The summary is similar to the summary Christi sent to you on Friday on FERC= =20 Staff's report on the midwest and southeast regions. Thanks Ginger Sarah 
Attached is a summary of FERC Staff=01,s November 1, 2000 report on its=20 investigation of the Northeast region.  The report is very encouraging=20 because it is comprehensive and recommends many of the changes and solution= s=20 that Enron has been advocating for years.  The report is also encouraging= =20 because it indicates a significant level of understanding of the northeast= =20 markets (and the problems in these markets) by the FERC people who worked o= n=20 this report.  Because this is only a brief summary, the entire report=20 (particularly sections 4 and 5) should be read in detail.  A copy of the=20 report is attached. Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah =20 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline 
I have a paid registration to the DOE-NARUC conference up for grabs.  Does anybody want it?  First come, first serve! gngr 713-853-7751 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline DOE and NARUC are hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring on November 29 to December 1 in Dallas. More information is available at http://www.energymarkets.org. Just a quick note to remind you that the early registration discount deadline is Friday, October 27.  To register, go to http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/NA_Summit/registration.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in this event. - winmail.dat 
Effective, February, 25, 2000 all of the  (Friday) monthly department conference calls will be held at 10:30am cst instead of 9:00am cst..   The call in number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. I do have a request, with Rick's group increasing in size the number of lines for my favorite number (1-800-283-1805) is limited.  My request is, within each office would you please gather as one big happy family and dial into the call (if/where possible) to help with the number of available lines.  If down the road I see the need for more lines I will have to change the number. Also, below is a list of the remaining calls for the year. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr Remaining (Friday) calls for 2000 at 10:30am cst February 25 March 24 April 21 May 19 June 16 July 14 August 11 September 8 October 6 November 3 December 1 December 29 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
If you have not responded to me regarding your attendance at the above referenced meeting, please do so by 12:00pm (noon) tomorrow. The meeting on December 8, is scheduled to begin at 8:30am and conclude by no later than 4:00pm (maybe even earlier).  Hope this helps in flight schedules.. gngr 713-853-7751 
The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting will be held in Houston, TX at the DoubleTree Hotel on Friday, December 8, 2000.  A block of rooms has been reserved under ""Enron Corp - Government Affairs"" and each individual is required to make their own reservation.  The group dinner will be held on Thursday, December 7 at Ruggles Restaurant, Enron Field at 7:00pm.  Please let me know of your plans to attend the dinner and meeting by Wednesday, November 15. Hotel information below: DoubleTree Hotel 400 Dallas Street Houston, TX 77002 713-759-0202  Phone # 713-654-0727  Fax# Additional information regarding the meeting will follow, but please remember to make your reservation and call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Please see e:mail from Nancy Hetrick below. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, would you please distribute this e-mail to everyone in Government Affairs.  Thanks. As you all know, Enron has been actively participating in an industry-wide collaborative effort, working to develop recommended Uniform Business Practices (UBP) for Retail Energy Markets.  This effort was in direct response to the Coalition for Uniform Business Rules (CUBR) report, which was published in September 1999.  THE UBP released Volume 1 of a two-volume final report on November 22, 2000.   Volume 1 includes recommend business practices for the following topics:  Customer Information, Customer Enrollment & Switching, Billing & Payment Processing, Exhibit - Billing Services Agreement, Load Profiling, Supplier Licensing, Market Participant Interaction( MPI):  Governing Documents and Performance Standards, Exhibit - Outline for Master Service Agreement, Disputes Between Utility and the Supplier, Customer Inquiries, Exhibit - Customer Account Maintenance and Glossary.  Also included in the document is an Introduction and a Preface. We would like to promote the use of this UBP report as a key item to be included in Enron's advocacy efforts for state restructuring legislation and commission implementation proceedings.  This report can be downloaded and printed from the following website:  http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/index.htm .  If you would prefer to receive a printed copy of this report, please e-mail me with your request and we will make the necessary arrangments for the report to be printed and distributed. Volume 2 which will address unbundled electricity metering will be published by year-end 2000.  I will let you know when this portion of the report is available. Also, please feel free to contact me if you have any questions regarding this report or if you would like assistance in promoting the use of the UBP report within the various states.  Vinio Floris, who has recently joined our group, will also be working with me to promote the use of this report.  Barbara Hueter is also devoting time to this project by participating with other 
Attached is a copy of S. 2098, the ""Electric Power Market Competition and Reliability Act"" sponsored by Senator Murkowski. Ginger - would you please forward to the folks in Rick's group?  Thanks. 
Ginger - Attached are Enron's finalized comments on the Barton bill.  Would you please forward to all the folks in Rick's group and include Steve Kean? Many thanks. 
The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting will soon be upon us. Dinner at Ruggles Restaurant, Enron Field, Thursday, December 7 will begin at 7:00pm and will be casual dress.  For those of you staying at the Doubletree, there is shuttle service available from the hotel.  Please contact the Concierge desk 25 minutes before departure to request the shuttle service. The address for the restaurant is: 333 Crawford Street, Houston, TX  77002 (713)259-8080. The department meeting on Friday, December 8 will begin at 8:30am and conclude by 3:00pm and will  take place at the Doubletree Hotel in the De Zavala room (please see attached agenda).  It's Friday, so casual dress is required!   A continental breakfast will be available beginning at 7:30am for all the early birds. One last thing, the room block will be cut off by close of business tomorrow, Thursday, November 30.  Please make your room reservation if you haven't done so already. Look forward to seeing everyone next week and please call me with any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
FYI 
Competition... - CERA Alert 
See msg. from Margaret Carson. gngr 713-853-7751 
Competition... - CERA Alert Ginger, Please send this to all govt affairs people  as it has  some very good insights into State by State initiatives.  Thanks,   Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert Some  good insight  here..Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Wed, November 29, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: Limited Chances to Play Won't Bench the Competition... Author: Biehl, Behrens E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Retail Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1430 , Alternative URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ref/alt/112900_19/ref_alt_112900_19_ab.html ********************************************************* RETAIL MARKTERS SEE OPPORTUNITY IN NONTRADITIONAL WAYS TO GROW CUSTOMER BASE With a tight supply-demand balance for natural gas and power in most US regions, CERA sees another difficult year ahead for retail marketers. * Nontraditional means of acquiring customer bases may offer a better opportunity for retail marketers to build market share in 2001 in order to be better positioned when more attractive retail market opportunities open in 2002. * Competitive retail suppliers are looking closely at supplying the regulated customer base (through standard offer or default service) and municipal aggregation to build customer base. Movements by regulators to reset prices below market standard offers for power are improving market conditions in several US Northeast states. **end** Follow URL for complete Monthly Briefing. ********************************************************* Come Shoot the Rapids with us at CERAWeek2001, ""Shooting the Rapids: Strategies and Risks for the Energy Future"" in Houston, February 12-16, 2001!  For more information and to register, please visit http://www.cera.com/ceraweek/ ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Forwarding info. below per the request of Christi Nicolay. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to Rick's group in North America, Canada and PR.  Thanks. 
FYI - Update:  The dinner at Ruggles tomorrow will require you to wear your coat.  The roof is likely to be open at Enron Field and the weather looks like it will be a chilly     hi?57oF -  lo?49oF. Thanks gngr 
FYI - Roy Boston is w/o a computer until Friday.  If you have sent anything to him via e:mail, he won't be able to respond. Thanks gngr 
Attached are the presentations from the Government Affairs-The Americas dept. meeting which was held on Friday, December 8.  For those of you who missed the special presentation for Rick, it is attached for your viewing pleasure (see luggage). gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Robin and Gia became the proud parents of Sophia Abigail on Monday, December 11, at 9:50 am.  She weighed 9 and 1/2 pounds and is 21 inches long.  Robin and Sophia are both doing well, as is Gia, although he reports being a bit 
Please see below. 
Please forward to entire group- This is an example of an outstanding memo that conveys critical information to our commercial counterparts- to the point and very relevant-- it is a model to emulate. 
This is a brief primer to assist you with current policy regarding interconnecting generation plants in the East.  Please forward this to your groups.  Thanks.  Christi Nicolay 37007  EB3108h.  I am available for your federal/FERC regulatory questions and can point you to the correct state/regional regulatory people. When initially deciding where to site a plant, there are several federal regulatory issues to consider: First, you will need to obtain the utility's interconnection policy and a pro forma interconnection agreement from the utility.  For most utilities, you will need to call them to obtain their policy and agreement.  Some utilities have this available on their OASIS computer site or web page.  The OASIS sites have areas that do not require a password, but if the information is not available in that area, you should contact the power trading desk transmission personnel to assist in locating the information.  If a utility says it does not have a policy, you can let me know. The interconnection procedures typically require you to send in a request for the utility to study the interconnection (Typically, app. $10,000).  When you return the money and the request (which is usually an agreement that must be initialled by ENA legal), the project will be placed in the ""queue.""  The queue is usually available on the OASIS.  If the utility does not post the queue, let me know. Many times the procedures require the project to meet ""milestones"" in order to remain in the queue.  If the milestones look unreasonable, let me know. FERC (the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) recently issued an order 
Below, in the attachment, you will find your confirmation # for your overnight stay in Ontario. If the dates for your stay are incorrect, please call me and I will make the necessary changes with the hotel.  There are two hotels listed, so please make sure you note which hotel your reservation is at.   The two hotel addresses are: Queen's Landing Inn (Main Hotel)   The Prince of Wales Hotel 155 Byron Street     6 Picton Street Niagara-on-the-Lake, ON  L0S 1J0   Niagara-on-the-Lake, ON  L0S 1J0 905-468-2195 phone#     905-468-2195 phone# 905-468-2227 guest fax#     905-468-5521 guest fax# Next week, Cindy Derecskey & myself will be forwarding more detailed information about the activities, location of the meetings, directions, maps and agenda items. Have a great weekend and we'll be in touch with each of you again next week. 
As you can see from the list of names above, it's going to be a WILD time on the Whirlpool Golf course in Niagara-on-the-lake.  We have decided that a ""golf scramble format"" be played for the Enron group, and in order to put teams together we need to know a few things such as: Handicap or lowest recorded score and (be honest) How often do you play (# of times in a month) Please forward this information to me by close of business on Tuesday, May 30. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
Ginger - please forward to the folks in Rick's group.  Many thanks. Here's an update on the recent developments on electricity restructuring legislation in the House and Senate.  Two legislative mark-up vehicles have been unveiled, HR 2944 and a Senate bill sponsored by Senator Murkowski that has yet to be formally introduced.  On Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, the Energy and Power subcommittee held the legislative hearings on Congressman Barton's bill, HR 2944.  Betsy Moler testified on behalf of AAE and her testimony is attached, along with a one page summary, and a copy of our proposed amendment submitted to the subcommittee.  We support the Barton bill, if and ONLY if, this amendment is incorporated.  Currently, the outlook is very positive that the amendment will be adopted and the legislation will move forward for full House consideration.  We need your support to contact state advocates in order to get them to support this amendment. The second piece of electricity legislation was released last Thursday and the draft legislative language is attached. We feel very positive that we can pass electricity legislation this Congress (ie. next year).   We see the critical pitfall as subcommittee action, but remain confident that enactment is possible.  We will be sure to keep you updated on any developments as they occur and appreciate your continued hard work in the states to help push federal legislation. Thanks. 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation Please note for your review the following news article which appeared in the August 22, 2000 edition of the San Francisco Chronicle: [Ginger:  please also route/distribute to those whom you deem appropriate. Thanks!] Joseph Alamo Sr. Administrative Assistant Government Affairs - The Americas San Francisco CA ---------------------------------------------------------------------- This article was sent to you by someone who found it on SF Gate. The original article can be found on SFGate.com here: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/22/M N1901.DTL ---------------------------------------------------------------------- August 22, 2000 (SF Chronicle) Partial Electric Rate Freeze OKd for Hard-Hit San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation David Lazarus, Chronicle Staff Writer Responding to calls for action from Gov. Gray Davis, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a limited rate freeze yesterday for electricity users in San Diego, where power bills have skyrocketed in recent months. However, the measure was harshly criticized by San Diego officials and consumer activists as being an insufficient remedy for surging rates resulting from deregulation of the state's electricity market. They are now looking for relief from legislators in Sacramento, who are expected to vote today on a bill that would allow them to sidestep state energy regulators and impose more extensive restrictions on how much San Diegans can be charged for power. ""I'm extremely, extremely disappointed,"" said San Diego County Supervisor Dianne Jacob, who flew up for yesterday's PUC meeting in San Francisco with other local officials. Former San Diego Mayor Maureen O'Connor urged California legislators to scrap the state's electricity deregulation altogether. ""To continue the farce so that the whole state is under this terrorist economic endeavor is just ridiculous,"" she said. O'Connor added that Bay Area ratepayers should be concerned about what will happen when Pacific Gas and Electric Co. lifts a freeze on its own electricity rates, perhaps as soon as next summer. ""We already have the train wreck in San Diego,"" she said. ""It's coming 
Please see note from Margaret Carson below and respond to her with questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Can you  kindly  distribute  this report to your  Govt  Affairs distribution list.  If  anyone  would like to get a user name and password  to  search the Cambridge  Energy reports just let me know.  Thanks, Margaret Carson 
CERA Alert: Dcember 13, 2000 Title: California on the Brink CERA Knowledge Areas: Western Energy, N. American Power, N. American Gas CALIFORNIA ON THE BRINK The California Stalemate California moved closer to the brink of an outage today as concerns over credit-worthiness of buyers brought the possibility that generators would avoid selling to the California market. While numerous factors have contributed to the high cost of power incurred by California's utilities, the root cause of the current crisis is a lack of new generation. The current credit crisis and its threat to supplies could spark state action to address the situation. The collective efforts of all market participants should be focused on increasing generation capacity as quickly as possible. Western power prices have skyrocketed well beyond the record levels set this summer. Perhaps because frozen rates insulate the majority of California consumers and companies from tangible effects of the market crisis, regulators have been able to postpone meaningful market reforms and significant rate increases. The California Public Utilities Commission denied the requests of Pacific Gas & Electric and Southern California Edison to end their rate freezes, forcing these utilities at least temporarily to finance the costs of higher wholesale energy. This has created an unsustainable accumulation of costs and a loss of faith in the California market. The current credit crisis and the potential for blackouts may become the galvanizing events that provide state regulators with a public mandate to address the underlying structural problems in the industry. However, there is no guarantee that these regulatory actions will expedite an effective solution for customers and the industry as a whole. Wholesale and retail markets that emerge from regulatory intervention are likely to remain muddled. In the necessarily political process that will follow, it is possible that-as has largely been the case so far-the steps taken will fail to move the California power market toward a more enduring solution and will instead continue to mask the underlying structural flaws. In the six months since California's supply shortfall began plaguing Western markets, regulators have done little to address the underlying problem. Rather than addressing the cause of the supply shortage-establishing a market environment that encourages timely additions of new generating capacity and demand side responses-efforts are instead directed at trying to lay blame for the crisis and lessen the immediate financial impact on customers. Indeed, several actions taken thus far have served more to compound the problem by discouraging new power plant additions. These include price caps, repeated changes to market rules, attempts to seize generator profits, and a challenging siting and permitting process. Medicine Worse than the Illness Several years of electricity demand growth and low prices in California were accompanied by very few additions to the supply base. Regulators did not pay adequate attention to the looming supply shortfall. The void of consensus over the cause of the current crisis has instead been replaced by a series of bandaid remedies that address the symptoms, but not the cause, of California's electric market woes.* * Challenging siting and permitting. Despite state action to better coordinate the siting and permitting process for new power plants, power plant developers still face high hurdles. Local community opposition alone has struck down some key proposed facilities. * Price caps discourage investment. State and federal proposals to cap prices limit the attractiveness of the California wholesale power market, especially for developers who have the option of channeling scarce capital and equipment to more stable or more attractive markets outside the state. * Repeated rule changes. Frequent rule changes in the ISO markets (including the price caps) confound attempts by developers to estimate profits from new plant development. * Calls for refunds. Despite reports by the Power Exchange, the ISO, and the FERC that no pattern of abuse could be found from their examination of the California markets, state officials continue to accuse power providers of gaming the market. Calls by state officials for refunds of generator profits are a threat to new plant development. * Facility inspections. Recent inspections of power plants by state officials to verify that operators are honestly reporting the operational status of their generating units accentuates the atmosphere of mistrust. CERA's recent analysis suggests that merchant plant developers in the West are not guaranteed? to make a profit. Prospects of new plant profitability are affected by the timing and quantity of new plants, decommissioning of older units, demand growth, and numerous other difficult-to-forecast factors. California's regulatory actions only further cloud the assessment of financial viability and degrade the political environment for developers considering entering the state. Despite efforts by the California ISO to stimulate new capacity additions in the state with a special, limited-term capacity payment, CERA estimates that demand growth will continue to outstrip supply additions in the West in 2001. In addition, the existing siting and permitting process will prevent a sufficient quantity of capacity from entering the market until 2003 at the earliest. Therefore, three years remain before a sufficient quantity of capacity enters service to significantly dampen prices and decrease the risk of an outage. The Road to Recovery There are a number of actions that can be taken to help relieve the capacity shortfall: * Encourage new build. Supply must be part of the answer. This requires a series of steps that can help facilitate new supply build. While in principal some have been taken, such as new fast track approval, the success of these actions can only be measured by the build itself. For now, there is still not enough new supply coming on until 2003 to relieve supply tightness.? * Stabilize investment climate. Utilities must have assurance that they will ultimately be allowed to recover market costs for power. This provides the credit worthiness needed by sellers to produce energy and to stimulate new build. * Move toward more balanced utility supply portfolios. One of the reasons the pressure on customers has been so intense in California has been the absence (and even discouragement) of diverse supply portfolios among the utilities in the state-particularly for residential and small commercial customers. With the market at a peak, however, now is in one sense a sub-optimal time to move toward term contracting. Yet these contracts provide the foundation for a series of actions-including new supply build and demand side investments. If they end up above market, they will at least have achieved the desired effect of knocking down prices, a fact which by itself should provide sufficient justification for recovering the cost of these commitments. * Encourage market mechanisms that elicit a demand response. Although originally a feature of California's market design, most consumers are insulated from price spikes through capped or frozen retail rates. Exposing customers to at least some of the market price signals would encourage a demand response. * Encourage market mechanisms that dampen the ""Boom Bust"" characteristic of the market. Whether in the form of a capacity payment, a reserve requirement, or a minimum term portfolio requirement, the California power market needs to move to a structure that encourages investment in new capacity when the market is in balance rather than waiting for a shortage and price shock to elicit new investment. Such a structure can help dampen (but not eliminate) future price volatility. * Avoid continuously tinkering with the market. While the market does need to be restructured as described above, it also needs to be stable and reliable to encourage the development of new supply as well as a robust long-term contractual market for power in California. Continually tinkering with the market structure-such as the three times the price cap has been shifted since July-only serves to undermine confidence in the market. California needs to do its best to develop a long-term solution and then let the market run its course. * Allow for greater environmental flexibility. The state should explore a more balanced solution to emissions restrictions in the face of a supply shortfall that has been exacerbated by generators that cannot operate due to emissions restrictions. * Free PURPA power plants to generate. Relief should be granted to PURPA power plants that are operational, but are restricted by contract from operating to generate only power. **end** This CERA Alert will be available in PDF format within 24 hours. ********************************************************************** This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Please see attached. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Lisa - Security has confirmed your access to the system, please try to get into it again.  If if doesn't work right away, follow the steps below to re-load the icons.  If you still have problems after that, please let me know and we'll loop in the developer to find out what's going on. Thanks! 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
A conf. call has been scheduled, by Jim,  for the above subject as follows: 
Electricity i 
Richard Shapiro 12/20/2000 03:14 PM 
Electricity i Ginger-Please forward to entire group. 
Below is a list of dates for the monthly (Friday)  department conference calls for the year 2001.  Please mark your calendars accordingly. Dates:   Friday, January 26 Friday, February 23 Friday, March 23 Friday, April 27 Friday, May 25 Friday, June 22 Friday, July 20 Friday, August 17 Friday, September 14 Friday, October 12 Friday, November 16 Friday, December 14 Time:   10:30am CST Number:  1-800-283-1805 (domestic #) Rick is listed as the host for these calls! 703-736-7385 (int'l #) Location:  EB4701 (for those in Houston) Thanks and please call if you have any questions. HAPPY NEW YEAR TO ALL!!!!!!!! gngr 
Just FYI. Assistants:  Please make note of the new rate for next year! gngr 713-853-7751 
The IRS has announced that the standard mileage rate for use of a personal automobile for business will be 34 1/2 cents per mile starting January 1, 2001.  Enron's policy is to follow IRS guidelines, so use this rate for all 
Margaret Carson 01/04/2001 11:30 AM 
Fyi    It is   easier  to  read after detaching  and click on  the PDF 
The next RCR meeting will take place on Tuesday, January 9  as follows: 
A conf. call has been scheduled to discuss Governor Gray Davis' State of the State address.  The call will take place as follows: 
The RCR meeting scheduled for today is being rescheduled to the following: 
The next RCR meeting will take place on Tuesday, January 9  as follows: 
Rick would like to hold a conference call tomorrow to update everyone on the meeting he attended w/Ken Lay at the U.S. Treasury Dept.  The call will take place as follows: 
Please see the v:mail message below from Rick Shapiro that was transcribed = by=20 Lora Sullivan. 
Rick Shapiro   Voicemail 1:30 AM 1/10/01 =20 Please pass this message on to Hartsoe and others as well.  Meeting went=20 until 12:15 PM.  He=01,s not going into details now.   During the course of= the=20 day there were several meetings and a proposal.  There was sort of an=20 agreement =01) I wouldn=01,t say it was a conceptual agreement that was rea= ched=20 among the parties that is going to be released by Treasury today.  I=01,m n= ot=20 sure much will come of it.  It=01,s going to create some motion.  I talked = to=20 Sue Mara.  Sue will be coming over to the office and you=01,ll need someone= else=20 to go with her because of the fact there are two working groups instead of= =20 one.  I=01,m going to read to you the statement: The Governor of CA and a bipartisan leadership of the state legislature met= =20 with major generators including qualifying facilities, marketers, utility= =20 regulators and federal officials to discuss the electricity situation in CA= . =20 Recognizing the importance of the issue as laid out in the Governor=01,s St= ate=20 of the State speech last evening, the partipants agreed for the need for=20 cooperation to maintain stability and avoid bankruptcy for the utilities an= d=20 assure the long term regulation of market conditions.  Crucial elements of= =20 the solution include: =20 ? The development of approaches to promote long-term purchases of electrici= ty=20 possibily by States and generators at an attractive fixed rate - an=20 option-type of an idea perhaps using some type of existing state agency lik= e=20 DWR - Dept. of Water and Resources to basically create the credit and=20 insulation for suppliers from the utilities. ? The willingness for generators, qualifying facilities and markets to=20 provide on the short-term basis for current amounts owed by PGE and Edison = in=20 the context of the framework of a long-term solution ? The need to find satisfactory approaches with respect to the obligation= =20 accumulation of the utilitles for the purchase of power consistent with=20 contractual obligations and which are in the public interest. ? Cooperation to better match supply and demand in the short and long-term. ? Review of the existing qualifying facilities payments to directors. The parties ackknoweldge the problem must be addresed while taking into=20 account the regional market.  Further working groups will be convened on=20 Wednesday, and there will be two working groups to address to address=20 technical details.  Principals will reconvene this weekend.  One working=20 group will deal with long-term auction and QF issues.  The first and the la= st=20 bullets and the second and the third bullets which have to do more with the= =20 arrearages, the debt and the obligations that have been accumulated for the= =20 purchase of the power is the second  working group. =20 I think I=01,ve read it all.  The working groups (see first and last bullet= s)=20 Sue is best equipped to handle.  If we need to send another person over wit= h=20 Sue to sit on the second working group that deals with the unrecovered and= =20 unpaid obligations of the utilites.  Sarah Novosel should do that. =20 
gngr 713-853-7751 
A  conference call, regarding the above subject, has been scheduled daily to provide a single place and time to review what has occurred over the last 24 hours regarding the California crisis and what lies ahead.  The conf. call information will be as follows: 
Carmen Perez@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 01/12/2001 02:17 PM 
Ginger- Flowers have been ordered for Steve's son - David W. Walton, on behalf of the group.  As I mentioned before, Steve's son was killed this Monday in an unfortunate trucking accident.  The funeral will be this coming Monday at the following address: Rosson Brothers Mortuary 295 No. Main Bountiful, Utah  84010 Tel. 801/295-5505 Carmen Perez International Government Affairs 
Ken Lay, Steve Kean, Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes will be traveling to California to attend a meeting to discuss California energy issues.  This meeting will be taking place on Saturday, January 13 at 12:30 PST.  A conference call will take place on Sunday, January 14 to review what was discussed in the meeting.  The conf. call information will be as follows: 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Please see the note from Elizabeth below. RCR's are now on-line and should be submitted via this on-line format. Please refrain from using the old form. Thank you, gngr 
Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> 
Because of the nature of the issues (particularly California) facing the company at this time, I would respectfully request that all outside speaking engagements be submitted to me for review and approval. 
My apologies in getting this information to everyone so late, but some of the dates are still a work in progress.  Please see below: Government Affairs - The Americas Department Meeting Dates for Year 2001 
The California daily conference call will continue to take place through the last week in February.  The time,  number, passcode and location listed below will remain the same. Thanks and feel free to call if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
There will be a RCR review call on Monday, January 29 at 12:00pm cst.  The number to call at 12:00 (noon) is 1-800-283-1805.. Thanks and call if you have any questions. gngr 
The daily California Crisis call is being rescheduled for tomorrow only!  See details below: (bolded items indicate a change) 
in Nov & Dec 
in Nov & Dec Please distribute to entire group. 
in Nov & Dec Good News.  FERC issued three reports yesterday:  a Response of the Staff of the FERC to Questions Posed at December 20, 2000 Western Governors Association Denver Meeting; a Staff Report to the FERC on Northwest Power Markets in Nov. and Dec. 2000; and a Report on Plant Outages in the State of California.  All three reports can be downloaded from FERC's page on bulk power markets, found at http://www.ferc.fed.us/electric/bulkpower.htm. From a quick scan of the pricing and outage reports, the results are very favorable.  FERC found no evidence that plants were down for other than maintenance or emissions problems.  The pricing report found that prices in the NW during the two months tracked the increased demand and supply shortfall. 
Richard Shapiro 02/02/2001 10:00 AM 
in Nov & Dec Please distribute to entire group. 
in Nov & Dec Good News.  FERC issued three reports yesterday:  a Response of the Staff of the FERC to Questions Posed at December 20, 2000 Western Governors Association Denver Meeting; a Staff Report to the FERC on Northwest Power Markets in Nov. and Dec. 2000; and a Report on Plant Outages in the State of California.  All three reports can be downloaded from FERC's page on bulk power markets, found at http://www.ferc.fed.us/electric/bulkpower.htm. From a quick scan of the pricing and outage reports, the results are very favorable.  FERC found no evidence that plants were down for other than maintenance or emissions problems.  The pricing report found that prices in the NW during the two months tracked the increased demand and supply shortfall. 
John Neslage@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 02/02/2001 11:20 AM 
Ginger: Could you please forward this to the participants of the daily California Conference call? Thanks John 
Woodlands, here we come again!!!!  The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting is scheduled for Friday, March 9 at 8:00am and should conclude by 5:00pm.  For those staying overnight, I have a block of rooms reserved and I will be putting a rooming list together for the conference center.  Please do not call the conference center directly for reservations.  I will need to know by Wednesday, February 7 of your plans to attend this meeting and if you will require overnight accommodations (pls indicate # of nights needed). The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport on a scheduled basis from 6:00am - 10:00pm at a cost of $32.00 per person, per trip.  Reservations must be made a minimum of 24 hours in advance for both arrivals and departures.  If you have an interest in using this service, please call the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. The agenda for the meeting is still a work in progress and I will forward it to everyone once it is finalized. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Rick has scheduled a  meeting for Thursday, February 15 to discuss the national campaign around California.  The meeting will take place in Houston, TX. and at the moment, I am in the process of locating a meeting space, but I wanted each of you to be aware of this meeting so you could block your calendar.  The meeting will begin at 11:30am (CST) and conclude by 3:30pm (CST).  If for any reason you are unable to attend this meeting, please inform Rick via e:mail or v:mail. I will keep everyone apprised of the meeting location and please feel free to call me if you have any questions. I would also like to request confirmation of your attendance and if overnight accommodations are needed, please let me know that as well. gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to entire California distribution list. Thanks. 
Below, please find the agenda for the ""California Crisis Meeting"" tomorrow, Friday, February 16. gngr 713-853-7751 
Rick's pager is temporarily out of service.  We hope to have it working by early afternoon.  If you need to reach him urgently, please call him on his cell phone at 281-831-3749. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Rick would like to hold a weekly call re: California every Friday from 4:00pm - 5:00pm CST w/the above listed individuals.  The dial in number will be 1-800-283-1805 and the call will start on Friday, February 23. Thanks and please mark your calendars accordingly. gngr 
The ""California Crisis"" daily conference call has been changed to a weekly call beginning next week, February 19.  The call will now take place every Monday at 10:30am CST w/ an exception of this Monday, February 19.  Since this is a holiday, the call will take place on Tuesday, February 20 at 10:30am CST.  The same dial in number will apply for the weekly call (please see below for dial information). Updated information on California  will be sent via e:mail when available. Also,  if there is someone who needs to get this information that is not on this address list, please make sure you forward this message to them. If you have any questions please feel free to call. Thanks gngr 713-853-7751 Richard Shapiro Sent by: Ginger Dernehl 01/11/2001 03:09 PM 
A  conference call, regarding the above subject, has been scheduled daily to provide a single place and time to review what has occurred over the last 24 hours regarding the California crisis and what lies ahead.  The conf. call information will be as follows: 
Rick Shapiro has scheduled a daily conference call for the above listed individuals to discuss the clarity of Enron's message and purpose.  This call will take place every week day at 10:00am CST, beginning Tuesday, February 20th.  Please see below for details: 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please send to entire group. 
In case you guys missed this..... 
I thought that you would appreciate this. - California+power.jpg 
Joan Stransky 02/16/2001 02:16 PM 
Please see attached 3-page memo from Margaret Carson. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
There has been a change in the time of above referenced call.  Please make note of this and place on your calendars. 
Rick Shapiro has scheduled a daily conference call for the above listed individuals to discuss the clarity of Enron's message and purpose.  This call will take place every week day at 10:00am CST, beginning Tuesday, February 20th.  Please see below for details: 
I am very pleased to announce the following promotions that became effective February 1, 2001. Steve Montovano - Sr. Director to Vice President: Steve, as regional head for the Eastern Seaboard area, has developed a very effective team that has brought a very commercially focused approach to their efforts in that region. Steve and his team have developed a model approach to transactional support and origination that has made them an integral part of the commercial teams that work in his region. Steve's efforts have been recognized by all, particularly his commercial counterparts in the region. Jeff Dasovich - Director to Sr. Director: As part of the Western States team, Jeff has helped to coordinate Enron's actions in response to California's energy crisis.  Throughout this crisis he has worked closely with Enron Energy Services, Enron North America and senior management of the company in a way that fully reflects Enron's core values.  He has provided and continues to provide leadership on complex issues involving business and litigation risk.  Jeff has also provided tremendous value to the business units on a number of transactions arising from the crisis. Lisa Yoho - Director to Sr. Director: Lisa has been a valuable member of the Eastern Seaboard team and , more recently has assumed responsibility for Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks. Lisa has been an integral team member in trying to establish a market for secondary rail transportation capacity and in helping to launch the company's efforts into  the agricultural commodity business. In  these and many other efforts in which Lisa has been involved, Lisa has consistently demonstrated substantive leadership and excellence. Donna Fulton - Manager to Director:  Donna joined Governmental Affairs this past summer, and has made excellent contributions to our RTO efforts, the sale of Portland General, and various commercial endeavors ranging from gas matters to licensing of a hydroelectric project in California.  Her extensive experience before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has proven invaluable to the Office. Lara Leibman - Manager to Director:   Lara consistently has produced very high quality work across a number of industries and issues.  Most recently, she has developed both regulatory and technical knowledge on issues related to developing a secondary market for wireless spectrum.  This has enabled her to provide a valuable leadership role while working closely with her commercial counterparts in this and other areas. Charles Yeung - Manger to Director:  Charles has been a key player in promoting changes to North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) operating policies that affect the East Trading Desk.  His understanding of the NERC policies and leadership role in NERC committees and working groups has been essential to successfully advocating meeting the needs of Enron. Allison Navin -  Legislative Coordinator to Manager.  Allison has been responsible for the research and tracking of key issues and legislation in the Washington, DC office as well as coordinating briefing and informational materials and has done an outstanding job  in the execution of all of her resposibilities.  In her new role, Allison will be an integral member of the federal advocacy team, working on a number of legislative and regulatory issues that will include broadband and e-commerce. Ginger Dernehl - Executive Secretary to Administrative Coordinator:   Ginger has done an outstanding job in supporting and coordinating efforts for the Government Affairs-The Americas group for the past 4 years.  Her dedication and hard work have resulted in her success and her promotion to Administrative Coordinator. A special personal note on Ginger. Ginger, in my mind, exemplifies and embodies the best of  Enron's vision and values: She works hard, produces outstanding results for the group, posesses an attitude that is optimistic and fun-loving, and still does an extraordinary job of balancing the personal and professional. Ginger, to put it succinctly, is a treasure and I am very pleased and proud to recognize her accomplishments. Joseph Alamo - Administrative Assistant II to Sr. Administrative Assistant: Joseph has been with San Francisco office for 1 1/2  years, during which time he has supported as many as five members of the Government Affairs teams. Joseph is uniformly recognized for his willingness to take on difficult tasks and his dedication to the company's efforts.  We thank Joseph for his work on behalf of Government Affairs and congratulate him on his promotion. Please join me in congratulating each of these individuals that have all made significant contributions to this company's success. I have also attached an updated organizational chart. 
Please read this e:mail.  Important detailed information provided. Hi everyone: I  want to follow-up with each of you on some details for the upcoming Government Affairs-The Americas meeting on Friday, March 9.  First thing, your contacts for this upcoming meeting will be Linda Noske (x36082)  & Geriann Warner (x35036).  After Tuesday, February 27, I will be out of the office and unavailable until Monday, March 12. (Aloha!) The meeting will take place at the Woodlands Resort in the ""Lakeside Room"" on Friday, March 9.  A continental breakfast will be available at 7:30am with the meeting beginning promptly at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm (see attached agenda). The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm (see attached map) For those of you who will be staying overnight, as an overnight guest at The Woodlands Resort, you are entitled to dinner the evening of March 8th and breakfast the next morning at the Woodlands Dining Room.   You must let the server know that your meal should be charged to the Enron master account. This service is part of the meeting package that Enron has agreed to.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call Linda or Geriann. The Woodlands Resort provides transportation to and from the airport. Assistants/Coordinators, please schedule any transportation with the resort directly, their number is 281-364-6256.  PARKING: Valet parking is not available, you will need to park in a parking lot on site. ATTIRE:  Friday Casual Below, you will find a list of names with date of arrival/departure for those needing overnight accommodations.  Please check this list for accuracy and get back with me ASAP if changes are needed. gngr 
Below is the information on the conference call planned by Rick Shapiro for tomorrow.. 
Please read this e:mail carefully, detailed information to follow. The next Government Affairs-The Americas department meeting is quickly approaching us.  The meeting will take place at: The Ritz-Carlton Tyson's Corner 1700 Tyson's Boulevard McLean, VA  22102 Phone# 703-506-4300 Guest Fax# 703-506-2694 Attached to this e:mail you will find a document with the listed confirmation #'s for each of you who require an overnight stay.  Please note, another hotel has been contacted for reservations for several individuals because the block of rooms at The Ritz-Carlton ran out.  The document does show who will be staying at the other hotel (The DoubleTree, Tyson's Corner, please note address on attachment).  Also, please confirm the arrival/departure date on the rooming list.  It is very important that this information be correct. For those staying at the Doubletree Hotel, I have requested shuttle service for the morning of the 13th at 7:15am for travel to The Ritz Carlton hotel. Tuesday, September 12 ---- The first item on the agenda is dinner on September 12 (day of arrival).  Dinner will take place at Maggiano's Little Italy Restaurant at 7pm.  The restaurant is located in the Mall at Tyson's Corner which is connected to The Ritz Carlton.  The dress for this restaurant is casual to business casual.   Please confirm your attendance with me again.  I'd like to get an accurate head count. Wednesday, September 13 ----- Department Meeting: Meeting will begin at 8:00am with a continental breakfast available starting at 7:15am.  The location of the meeting will be in Salon I (located on the 5th floor).  Lunch will take place at 12:00 (noon) and end at 1:30pm.  The extra time for the lunch hour will allow for checking messages.  The breakout sessions will start at 2:15pm and conclude by 4:00pm.   The sessions will take place in the Consulate Room and The Plaza Room which are both located on the 6th floor. An agenda is attached to this e:mail for your viewing.  Dress for the meeting will be casual to business casual. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Questions should be referred to Cynthia Sandherr. thank you. 
Ginger - please forward to all the folks in Rick's group.  Thanks. Attached is a copy of a letter sent by Cynthia Sandherr on Friday afternoon to members of the Energy and Power subcommittee, along with a copy of the amendment.  Please let us know if you have any questions.  Thanks. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
FYI - Sue and Dan have not been receiving e:mails since yesterday, Thursday, August 31.  Please call Sue or Dan if you require anything. 603-224-5942 - Sue Nord 603-223-0985 - Dan Allegretti Thanks 
Here are  the files from the Broadmoor.  Please call me if you have any questions. 
One more thing, Continental Breakfast, in the Gaylord Room, will be available beginning at 7:30am on Thursday & Friday. gngr 
The meeting is upon us and I will keep everyone posted on the weather.  I was told yesterday that it was in the high 70's during the day and in the low 40's  during the night.  But we know how that darn weather is.  Anyway, our stay at the hotel is located on the ""west"" side of the Broadmoor.  There are two main buildings to the Broadmoor so be sure to mention the ""west"" side when you arrive.  The meetings will take place in the Gaylord Board Room beginning at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm on Thursday and Friday, November 18 & 19. Transportation: Airport transportation from the Colorado Springs Airport is available through the Broadmoor Transportation Service.  The number is 719-577-5769. Fares: $10.50 per person one way $20.00 per person round trip The Broadmoor Transportation Desk at the Colorado Springs Airport is staffed daily from 9:00am-11:30pm.  The desk is located at the base of the escalator in the Baggage Claim area, across from Baggage Terminal #3 (next to theHertz desk).  Airport transportation is by reservation only. Also, below I have listed everyone's confirmation #'s.  Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr Joe Allen  7112261 Scott Bolton  7112275 Jeff Brown  7112276 Aleck Dadson  7112262 Jeff Dasovich  7112281 Joe Hartsoe  7112268 Paul Kaufman  7112277 Harry Kingerski  7112263 Kathleen Magruder 7112264 Sue Mara  7112278 Janine Migden  7112279 Steve Montovano 7112265 Sue Nord  7112280 Rick Shapiro  7112266 Jim Steffes  7366163 
The meeting is upon us and I will keep everyone posted on the weather.  I was told yesterday that it was in the high 70's during the day and in the low 40's  during the night.  But we know how that darn weather is.  Anyway, our stay at the hotel is located on the ""west"" side of the Broadmoor.  There are two main buildings to the Broadmoor so be sure to mention the ""west"" side when you arrive.  The meetings will take place in the Gaylord Board Room beginning at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm on Thursday and Friday, November 18 & 19. Transportation: Airport transportation from the Colorado Springs Airport is available through the Broadmoor Transportation Service.  The number is 719-577-5769. Fares: $10.50 per person one way $20.00 per person round trip The Broadmoor Transportation Desk at the Colorado Springs Airport is staffed daily from 9:00am-11:30pm.  The desk is located at the base of the escalator in the Baggage Claim area, across from Baggage Terminal #3 (next to theHertz desk).  Airport transportation is by reservation only. Also, below I have listed everyone's confirmation #'s.  Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr Joe Allen  7112261 Scott Bolton  7112275 Jeff Brown  7112276 Aleck Dadson  7112262 Jeff Dasovich  7112281 Joe Hartsoe  7112268 Paul Kaufman  7112277 Harry Kingerski  7112263 Kathleen Magruder 7112264 Sue Mara  7112278 Janine Migden  7112279 Steve Montovano 7112265 Sue Nord  7112280 Rick Shapiro  7112266 
FYI 
Federico Boschi is from the Acquirente Unico a.k.a. the Italian Single Buyer, (ISB).  The ISB is the electrcity purchasing agent for the Italian market.  Mr. Boschi will be responsible for the purchase and sale of power (including imports and pooling transactions)and risk management functions.  He sees Enron as a potential counterparty in performing this role.  He's coming here to be exposed to similar US experiences and improve his knowledge on trading and risk management issues. He has an extensive background in the electricity business and libralization of it in Italy.  Below is his work history: Name: Federico Surname: Boschi Born in Bolgna on 29 December 1963 Address: Via D'Azeglio n. 63 Bologna Italy Study: Graduated in economics on 1995, Bologna University; Thesis in Industrial Economics on: liberalization of the Italian electricity industry. Languages:  Italian   mother language English   Good Spain     sufficient Business experience (Most relevant); July 2001 as of today Company:   Acquirente Unico ( a electricity purchasing agency for the whiole Italian captive market) Position:   Purchase and sales manager; moreover I'm responsible for setting up the risk management office July 2000 up to June 2001 Institution: Autorita' per l'energia elettrice ed il gas (the Italian energy regulator) Position: officer in the electricity area; Main tasks: a) stranded costs recovery mechanism; b) scarce import capacity allocation criteria c)wholesale market rules (code of dispatching regulation including ancillary services market - including the balancing market - and congestion management mechanism). March 2000 up to June 2000 Institution: Ministero dell'Industria Position: member of the Minister's technical secretary (advising the Minister on energy issues) March 1997 up to June 2000 Company: AMI Imola (a water, gas, electricity and waste disposal municipal utility); Position: Responsible for strategic planning; He also wrote articles on electricity regulation (tariffs, wheeling..) in Italy. Carrie Rob?rt Manager, Enron Corporate Marketing 713-853-3522 
The replay number for the Investor Relations conference call this morning is: 719-457-0820 780214 (passcode) I'm not sure Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
I want to update everyone on the next Global Government Affairs Department Meeting.  It will take place as previously scheduled.  See below for details: Location:	The Woodlands Country Club 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 281-367-1100 
My apologies, there has been a slight change in the dial information that i= s listed below.  Please note changed items in red: 
Per Rick's call this morning, below is the replay information for the analyst call that took place today. Domestic #:	888-568-0510 International#:	712-271-3359 Passcode:	Dynegy Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Global Government Affairs will have a weekly call that will take place as follows: 
Rick will hold another update conference call on Monday as follows: 
Hi Everyone, I want to thank all of you for being so patient, but I do have another chan= ge.  My last verbal message to everyone was that the call would take place = at 1:00 PM (CST).  This is changing again.  Rick will hold a call today as = follows: 
This call has been rescheduled for 4:00 PM (CST) today!!!!!!!  Same dial information will be used. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 Fax# 713-646-8160 There will be another Global Government Affairs update conference call that will take place as follows: 
There will be another Global Government Affairs update conference call that will take place as follows: 
REMINDER:  any new or renewed retainer agreements are to be approved by Rick.   Please forward all agreements to me for Rick's signature. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
We will need to have this call @ 2:00 PM (CDT).  Sorry for all the changes. 
Per Rick's promise on last Friday's conference call, he will hold another general update call as follows: 
Rick will hold a conference call on Friday, October 26 to update everyone on what has transpired since last Friday's department call.  The call will take place as follows: 
Please look at the ""box lunch menu's"" at the bottom of this e:mail and let me know if you would like me to order you anything for lunch on Friday, November 9.  The meeting will be ending at 12:00 (noon) and some will be rushing to catch flights and might not have time for lunch.  My original plan was to order box lunches for everyone, but I thought some of you may not be in a rush and have an interest in dining out.  So, please let me know either way what you chose to do. Thanks! BOX LUNCHES THE HERO Ham, Turkey, Provolone, Salami, Lettuce and Tomato served on a Hoagie Bun Pickle Spear, Olive and Pepperoncini Farfalle Pasta Salad Deli Potato Chips	Peanut M&M's Nutri-Grain Bar		Ripe Banana Chocolate Chip Cookie Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring Water Soda of choice A MATTER OF CHOICE Variety of Three Sandwiches Half Turkey on Whole Wheat with Provolone Cheese Roast Beef with Cheddar on Petite Onion Roll Smoked Ham and Swiss Cheese on Marble Rye Bread * Mustard Potato Salad Pickle Spear Deli Potato Chips	Red Delicious Apple Snickers Bar		Magic Coconut Square Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring Water Soda of Choice CUISINE VIVANTE BOX LUNCH Water Boiled Bagel and Vegetable Sandwich Lettuce, Tomato, Cucumber, Alfalfa Sprouts, Mushrooms Ranch Dressing * Crudite of Celery, Carrots and Radishes Broccoli Florettes and Olives Low-Fat Italian Dressing * Fruit Yogurt		Granola Bar Fruit Salad Cup Low-Fat Pretzels Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring water Soda of Choice THE SOUTHWESTERNER Sliced Roast Sirloin of Beef with Jalapeno Cheese Seven Grain Kaiser Roll * Tortilla Chips, Salsa Dip Rocky Ford Melon Cocktail Taos Corn Salad Kosher Dill Pickle * Peanut M&M's Butterscotch Blondie Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring Water Soda of Choice 
A conference call has been scheduled for Friday, October 19 @ 4:00 PM (CDT) regarding the above subject.  Please make note of the dial-in information below: Number:	1-877-660-6591 Participant Code 558191 Thanks! Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
There are several changes to the Direct Report meeting in November. First, the meeting will now conclude by 12:00 (noon) on Friday, November 9. Second, the activities portion of the trip will not be sponsored by Enron....each individual will be responsible (personally) for payment of activity of choice.  Most individuals either chose golf or horseback riding.....below is an estimate as to how much these activities will cost. Golf: Green Fees	(East/West Course)	$155.00/18 holes (Includes golf cart, use of practice balls, club care & storage) (East/West Course)	$85.00/9 holes	(includes - same as above) (Mountain Course)	$95.00/18 holes  (includes - same as above) (Mountain Course)	$50.00/9 holes	 (includes - same as above) Rentals: Golf clubs with sleeve of balls	$55.00 Golf Shoes			$20.00 Horseback riding:		1hour		$25.00/person 1hour pkg	$35.00/person (pkg includes shuttle ride to stables) 2hour		$40.00/person 2hour pkg	$50.00/person (pkg includes shuttle ride to stables) mini ride	(group only) $15.00/approximately 20 minutes If you have an interest in the spa services that are available, please let me know and I will fax the spa list to you. Please let me know ASAP which activity you choose so I can make the necessary arrangements. Thanks and please call me if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
The next scheduled RCR meeting will take place as follows: 
REMNDER!!!!!!! The next ""Budget/Priority"" Meeting will take place as follows: Dates:		Arrive evening of Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2001 Meeting Thursday, Nov. 8, 2001 --- 8:00 AM - 1:00 PM Meeting Friday, Nov. 9, 2001--- 8:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location:	The Broadmoor One Lake Avenue Colorado Springs, CO 80906 719-634-7711 Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Yes, there is a scheduled Government Affairs conference call today. The dial information is: 
The next RCR meeting will take place on Wednesday, August 15 @ 3:00 PM (CDT).  The dial number will be 1-800-283-1805. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Originally we had scheduled a department meeting for the month of September.  This particular meeting will no longer take place.  The next scheduled department meeting will be held in Houston, TX on Friday, December 7 and will be held at the Woodlands Conference Center. Thanks! Original message (below) sent January 25, 2001 My apologies in getting this information to everyone so late, but some of the dates are still a work in progress.  Please see below: Government Affairs - The Americas Department Meeting Dates for Year 2001 
It has been decided that this call will now take place on a bi-weekly basis.  Below are the dates for the upcoming calls, so please mark your calendars accordingly. Dates for Upcoming Leadership Calls: Monday, July 30 Monday, August 13 & 27 Monday, September 10 & 24 Monday, October 8 & 22 Monday, November 5 & 19 Monday, December 3, 17 & 31 Time for Upcoming Leadership Calls: 10:00 AM (CDT) Number: 1-800-998-2462 pass code 5316376 Also, as a reminder, these calls are mandatory.  If you are unable to attend please let both Rick & I know. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
I have rescheduled the Global Government Affairs Conference call to Thursday, July 26 @ 4:00 PM (CDT).  This call was originally scheduled for this past Friday, July 20.  See details below: 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please mark your schedules to note the change in the dial-in information for the call mentioned above.  This change will take place immediately. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
nia Update Conference Call The Government Affairs group continues to have a weekly California update c= onference call every Monday at 10:30 am (CDT).  However, we have decided to= change the passcode information to ensure Enron privacy.  Please make note= of the new passcode on your schedules. 
Jeff, Here is the Linda Robertson call for Monday's. gngr 713-853-7751 
AGENDA Weekly Consultants Meeting Monday, July 16, 2001 4:00 PM EST Enron Offices Conference Call-In Number:  800-713-8600; Code 6261 - Agenda 071601.doc 
The next scheduled RCR meeting will take place as follows: 
The California Campaign Leadership conference call scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, July 12, has been postponed until Monday, July 16 @ 4:00 PM (CDT).  The dial number will remain 1-800-998-2462 (passcode = 5316376) Thanks! gngr 
The RCR meeting will take place today as follows: 
Sue & Jeff, You two were the only individuals who submitted RCR's.  Please access the following number @ 1:00 PM (CDT) to discuss your RCR. 
Cooperation 
Please see the attached statement from Public Relations - Assistants:  Please make sure your direct reports receive a copy of this e:mail. FYI- we issued the attached release this morning. I know our govt affairs teams will have lots of questions and will probably be asked several questions.  Unfortunately, given the legal nature of this inquiry, we cannot say anything more than this at this time.  We are asking our folks not to engage in conversations or opinion related discussions about this.  Also, Ken Lay will be discussing this at an employee meeting tomorrow morning.  It would be a good idea for everyone to tune in, if possible (or review the playback later in the day.) I am also attaching a brief INTERNAL Q&A about the SEC request- just to give a little more information. Thanks- Meredith Phiipp Public Relations 
I wanted to wish each of you a Happy New Year and to also let you know that I will be on vacation through January 7.  If there is anything that you need Maureen, Elizabeth & Gus will be in the office on January 2. Again, Happy New Year To All!!!!!!! Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
REMNDER!!!!!!! The next ""Budget/Priority"" Meeting will take place as follows: Dates:		Arrive evening of Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2001 Meeting Thursday, Nov. 8, 2001 --- 8:00 AM - 1:00 PM Meeting Friday, Nov. 9, 2001--- 8:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location:	The Broadmoor One Lake Avenue Colorado Springs, CO 80906 719-634-7711 Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
The next scheduled RCR meeting will take place as follows: 
There are several changes to the Direct Report meeting in November. First, the meeting will now conclude by 12:00 (noon) on Friday, November 9. Second, the activities portion of the trip will not be sponsored by Enron....each individual will be responsible (personally) for payment of activity of choice.  Most individuals either chose golf or horseback riding.....below is an estimate as to how much these activities will cost. Golf: Green Fees	(East/West Course)	$155.00/18 holes (Includes golf cart, use of practice balls, club care & storage) (East/West Course)	$85.00/9 holes	(includes - same as above) (Mountain Course)	$95.00/18 holes  (includes - same as above) (Mountain Course)	$50.00/9 holes	 (includes - same as above) Rentals: Golf clubs with sleeve of balls	$55.00 Golf Shoes			$20.00 Horseback riding:		1hour		$25.00/person 1hour pkg	$35.00/person (pkg includes shuttle ride to stables) 2hour		$40.00/person 2hour pkg	$50.00/person (pkg includes shuttle ride to stables) mini ride	(group only) $15.00/approximately 20 minutes If you have an interest in the spa services that are available, please let me know and I will fax the spa list to you. Please let me know ASAP which activity you choose so I can make the necessary arrangements. Thanks and please call me if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
A conference call has been scheduled for Friday, October 19 @ 4:00 PM (CDT) regarding the above subject.  Please make note of the dial-in information below: Number:	1-877-660-6591 Participant Code 558191 Thanks! Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Please look at the ""box lunch menu's"" at the bottom of this e:mail and let me know if you would like me to order you anything for lunch on Friday, November 9.  The meeting will be ending at 12:00 (noon) and some will be rushing to catch flights and might not have time for lunch.  My original plan was to order box lunches for everyone, but I thought some of you may not be in a rush and have an interest in dining out.  So, please let me know either way what you chose to do. Thanks! BOX LUNCHES THE HERO Ham, Turkey, Provolone, Salami, Lettuce and Tomato served on a Hoagie Bun Pickle Spear, Olive and Pepperoncini Farfalle Pasta Salad Deli Potato Chips	Peanut M&M's Nutri-Grain Bar		Ripe Banana Chocolate Chip Cookie Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring Water Soda of choice A MATTER OF CHOICE Variety of Three Sandwiches Half Turkey on Whole Wheat with Provolone Cheese Roast Beef with Cheddar on Petite Onion Roll Smoked Ham and Swiss Cheese on Marble Rye Bread * Mustard Potato Salad Pickle Spear Deli Potato Chips	Red Delicious Apple Snickers Bar		Magic Coconut Square Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring Water Soda of Choice CUISINE VIVANTE BOX LUNCH Water Boiled Bagel and Vegetable Sandwich Lettuce, Tomato, Cucumber, Alfalfa Sprouts, Mushrooms Ranch Dressing * Crudite of Celery, Carrots and Radishes Broccoli Florettes and Olives Low-Fat Italian Dressing * Fruit Yogurt		Granola Bar Fruit Salad Cup Low-Fat Pretzels Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring water Soda of Choice THE SOUTHWESTERNER Sliced Roast Sirloin of Beef with Jalapeno Cheese Seven Grain Kaiser Roll * Tortilla Chips, Salsa Dip Rocky Ford Melon Cocktail Taos Corn Salad Kosher Dill Pickle * Peanut M&M's Butterscotch Blondie Broadmoor Non-sparkling Spring Water Soda of Choice 
Rick will hold a conference call on Friday, October 26 to update everyone on what has transpired since last Friday's department call.  The call will take place as follows: 
Per Rick's promise on last Friday's conference call, he will hold another general update call as follows: 
With all the ongoing changes that have been taking place around here and the known fact that some of us will be going our separate ways, it is my hope that we can all keep in touch in the future.  I would like to put something together for the group, so please provide me with your contact information, so I can prepare the ""Let's Keep in Touch"" contact list for Government Affairs.  Below is the contact information that I would like to receive from each of you. Once I have put the list together, I will forward it to everyone. Name: Home Address: Home Phone#: Home E:mail address: New Place of Employment (if available): Work Address: Work Phone Number: Work E:mail address: Cell #: Other Family Contact Information: Please provide current (or future if known) address and phone number. Thanks to all!!!! Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Rick will hold a Government Affairs department conference call tomorrow as follows.  Please mark your calendars accordingly. 
Rick will hold a conference call today for all the field offices and for those on travel....it will take place as follows: 
Please see below. 
Please forward to entire group- This is an example of an outstanding memo that conveys critical information to our commercial counterparts- to the point and very relevant-- it is a model to emulate. 
This is a brief primer to assist you with current policy regarding interconnecting generation plants in the East.  Please forward this to your groups.  Thanks.  Christi Nicolay 37007  EB3108h.  I am available for your federal/FERC regulatory questions and can point you to the correct state/regional regulatory people. When initially deciding where to site a plant, there are several federal regulatory issues to consider: First, you will need to obtain the utility's interconnection policy and a pro forma interconnection agreement from the utility.  For most utilities, you will need to call them to obtain their policy and agreement.  Some utilities have this available on their OASIS computer site or web page.  The OASIS sites have areas that do not require a password, but if the information is not available in that area, you should contact the power trading desk transmission personnel to assist in locating the information.  If a utility says it does not have a policy, you can let me know. The interconnection procedures typically require you to send in a request for the utility to study the interconnection (Typically, app. $10,000).  When you return the money and the request (which is usually an agreement that must be initialled by ENA legal), the project will be placed in the ""queue.""  The queue is usually available on the OASIS.  If the utility does not post the queue, let me know. Many times the procedures require the project to meet ""milestones"" in order to remain in the queue.  If the milestones look unreasonable, let me know. FERC (the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) recently issued an order 
Questions should be referred to Cynthia Sandherr. thank you. 
Ginger - please forward to all the folks in Rick's group.  Thanks. Attached is a copy of a letter sent by Cynthia Sandherr on Friday afternoon to members of the Energy and Power subcommittee, along with a copy of the amendment.  Please let us know if you have any questions.  Thanks. 
Ginger - please forward to the folks in Rick's group.  Many thanks. Here's an update on the recent developments on electricity restructuring legislation in the House and Senate.  Two legislative mark-up vehicles have been unveiled, HR 2944 and a Senate bill sponsored by Senator Murkowski that has yet to be formally introduced.  On Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, the Energy and Power subcommittee held the legislative hearings on Congressman Barton's bill, HR 2944.  Betsy Moler testified on behalf of AAE and her testimony is attached, along with a one page summary, and a copy of our proposed amendment submitted to the subcommittee.  We support the Barton bill, if and ONLY if, this amendment is incorporated.  Currently, the outlook is very positive that the amendment will be adopted and the legislation will move forward for full House consideration.  We need your support to contact state advocates in order to get them to support this amendment. The second piece of electricity legislation was released last Thursday and the draft legislative language is attached. We feel very positive that we can pass electricity legislation this Congress (ie. next year).   We see the critical pitfall as subcommittee action, but remain confident that enactment is possible.  We will be sure to keep you updated on any developments as they occur and appreciate your continued hard work in the states to help push federal legislation. Thanks. 
Ginger - Attached are Enron's finalized comments on the Barton bill.  Would you please forward to all the folks in Rick's group and include Steve Kean? Many thanks. 
Attached is a copy of S. 2098, the ""Electric Power Market Competition and Reliability Act"" sponsored by Senator Murkowski. Ginger - would you please forward to the folks in Rick's group?  Thanks. 
Originally we had scheduled a department meeting for the month of September. This particular meeting will no longer take place.  The next scheduled department meeting will be held in Houston, TX on Friday, December 7 and will be held at the Woodlands Conference Center. Thanks! Original message (below) sent January 25, 2001 My apologies in getting this information to everyone so late, but some of the dates are still a work in progress.  Please see below: Government Affairs - The Americas Department Meeting Dates for Year 2001 
It has been decided that this call will now take place on a bi-weekly basis. Below are the dates for the upcoming calls, so please mark your calendars accordingly. Dates for Upcoming Leadership Calls: Monday, July 30 Monday, August 13 & 27 Monday, September 10 & 24 Monday, October 8 & 22 Monday, November 5 & 19 Monday, December 3, 17 & 31 Time for Upcoming Leadership Calls: 10:00 AM (CDT) Number: 1-800-998-2462 pass code 5316376 Also, as a reminder, these calls are mandatory.  If you are unable to attend please let both Rick & I know. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
I have rescheduled the Global Government Affairs Conference call to Thursday, July 26 @ 4:00 PM (CDT).  This call was originally scheduled for this past Friday, July 20.  See details below: 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline 
gngr 713-853-7751 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline DOE and NARUC are hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring on November 29 to December 1 in Dallas. More information is available at http://www.energymarkets.org. Just a quick note to remind you that the early registration discount deadline is Friday, October 27.  To register, go to http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/NA_Summit/registration.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in this event. 
I am pleased to announce that effective July 1st the following individuals have been promoted from Director to Senior Director. Dan Allegretti - Dan has been a leader on both retail and wholesale electricity issues in New England for the past several years with Enron, resulting in Dan currently serving as Chair of the New England Power Pool Participants Committee.  Dan, more importantly, has been very active, both in the past and during the course of this year, in ensuring that transactional opportunities in the New England region are fully exploited by both Enron Wholesale Services and Enron Energy Services.  Dan's participation in the United Illuminating deal has been mentioned many times, but Dan has also played a critical role in working with Enron Energy Services this year in helping to develop a national business plan for creating value through the delivery of retail services in partnership with municipal and privately owned utilities. Robert Hemstock - Rob's participation in the development of Alberta's competitive electricity market and the ensuing PPA project, that has produced considerable value for Enron and Enron Canada has been quite notable.  Rob has been a leader, not only with policy makers, but also with his commercial counterparts in ensuring that the PPA transaction was brought to fruition last year.  Rob has also played a critical role in preserving the value embedded in that deal throughout the course of this year.  Rob's knowledge of both wholesale and retail issues in both the natural gas and electricity industries in Western Canada is unparalleled. Sue Mara - Sue is a warrior.  Sue has fought endlessly and courageously during her years with Enron in trying to ensure, against all odds, that retail and wholesale electricity markets work as effectively as possible in California while also protecting Enron's interests in that very challenging state.  Sue is a passionate believer in the efficacy of markets, and fights tirelessly for both the issues as well as the well-being of the company in California. Please join me in congratulating each of these individuals on their significant accomplishments. 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Litigation Team weekly conference call scheduled for today at 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please mark your schedules to note the change in the dial-in information for the call mentioned above.  This change will take place immediately. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The Government Affairs group continues to have a weekly California update conference call every Monday at 10:30 am (CDT).  However, we have decided to change the passcode information to ensure Enron privacy.  Please make note of the new passcode on your schedules. 
Jeff, Here is the Linda Robertson call for Monday's. gngr 713-853-7751 
AGENDA Weekly Consultants Meeting Monday, July 16, 2001 4:00 PM EST Enron Offices Conference Call-In Number:  800-713-8600; Code 6261 - Agenda 071601.doc 
The next scheduled RCR meeting will take place as follows: 
The California Campaign Leadership conference call scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, July 12, has been postponed until Monday, July 16 @ 4:00 PM (CDT). The dial number will remain 1-800-998-2462 (passcode = 5316376) Thanks! gngr 
Jeff, is this it? gngr 713-853-7751 
Rick Shapiro will be hosting a conference call today regarding the above subject.  Please see details below: 
Please mark your calendar's for the next ""Budget/Priority"" Meeting.  Rick has chosen the following dates and location: Dates:  Arrive evening of Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2001 Meeting Thursday, Nov. 8, 2001 --- 8:00 AM - 1:00 PM Meeting Friday, Nov. 9, 2001--- 8:00 AM - 3:00 PM Location: The Broadmoor One Lake Avenue Colorado Springs, CO 80906 719-634-7711 Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Lysa Tracy/ENRON@enronXgate 06/29/2001 05:21 PM =20 
Ginger - please distribute to the GA Group. =01; Paul Kaufman's SkyTel Pager has been canceled.=01; The phone number 888/916= -2262=20 is NO LONGER VALID. =01; Until further notice, please contact me at the number below, and I'll be=20 happy to page Paul with a text message. =01; Thanks! =01; =01; Lysa D. Tracy Sr. Admin. Ass't. Government Affairs 121 SW Salmon - 3WTC0306 Portland, OR=01; 97204 phone: 503/464-7927 fax: 503/464-3740 email: lysa.tracy@enron.com <mailto:lysa.tracy@enron.com> 
If, at any time, it is necessary for anyone in Enron Government Affairs- The Americas  to contact elected or appointed officials (or staff) of the Federal Government ,e.g;FERC, FCC, CFTC, State Department, Congress, The White House etc.., you must  make every effort to  to contact someone from the Federal Government Affairs( now also includes Federal RegulatoryAffairs) group in the DC office before any such  contact is made.The purpose of this memo is not to discourage or prohibit individuals in the group  from calling their contacts in Washington, but rather to make sure we are fully coordinated and 
Request from Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes In the future, if  you schedule a tour of the gas & power trading floors at Enron, and you DO NOT go through experienceENRON to arrange for the tour(s), it is ""MANDATORY"" that you contact Christi Nicolay (x37007) before visiting the trading floors. gngr 
As promised, please find attached the presentations from the GA meeting in Colorado, June 14, 2001. gngr 
The RCR call scheduled for Monday, June 25 will take place at 4:00pm CDT. Please make note of this on your schedules. Thanks! gngr 
Please mark your schedules to note the change in the dial-in information for the call mentioned above.  This change will take place immediately. 
To ensure privacy for the California Team call, which takes place on Tuesday's and Thursday's, the passcode information for the call has been changed.  Please make note of the change on your schedules.  This change will take place immediately. 
Please see the question from Elizabeth below and respond directly back to her. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - Please forward this question to Rick's group: We're in the process of converting the Project Tracking/RCR database from Lotus Notes to a web-based application.  One of the questions the team has asked is whether anyone replicates the database to work offline, and then replicate back to the network.  If you do this, please let me know as soon as possible.  Thanks! Elizabeth 
The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting will be held in Houston, TX at the DoubleTree Hotel on Friday, December 8, 2000.  A block of rooms has been reserved under ""Enron Corp - Government Affairs"" and each individual is required to make their own reservation.  The group dinner will be held on Thursday, December 7 at Ruggles Restaurant, Enron Field at 7:00pm.  Please let me know of your plans to attend the dinner and meeting by Wednesday, November 15. Hotel information below: DoubleTree Hotel 400 Dallas Street Houston, TX 77002 713-759-0202  Phone # 713-654-0727  Fax# Additional information regarding the meeting will follow, but please remember to make your reservation and call me if you have any questions. gngr 
My apologies for all the changes but, I am rescheduling the RCR call for tomorrow, Tuesday, June 12 @ 4:00pm CDT.  The dial in number will remain 1-800-283-1805. Thanks! gngr 713-853-7751 
The RCR meeting today at 12:00 pm (noon) CDT has been rescheduled for 1:30 pm CDT TODAY!!!  Please note the time change.  The dial in number will remain the same (1-800-283-1805). Thanks gngr 
The RCR meeting today at 12:00 pm (noon) CDT has been rescheduled for 1:30 pm CDT TODAY!!!  Please note the time change.  The dial in number will remain the same (1-800-283-1805). Thanks gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - could you please send a note to the group advising that my new e-mail address is: Lysa.Tracy@enron.com Lysa AKIN has been removed from the address book. Thanks, Ginger! Lysa Tracy Gov't Affairs Admin. (Portland Office) 503/464-7927 
James D Steffes 11/02/2000 06:13 PM 
Ginger -- Can you please distribute to all of Rick's group. 1. Talking Points 2. FERC Order Summary 
Please forward to Gov't Affairs group. Enron North America Corp. 
Please read this e:mail carefully, detailed information to follow. The next Government Affairs-The Americas department meeting is quickly approaching us.  The meeting will take place at: The Ritz-Carlton Tyson's Corner 1700 Tyson's Boulevard McLean, VA  22102 Phone# 703-506-4300 Guest Fax# 703-506-2694 Attached to this e:mail you will find a document with the listed confirmation #'s for each of you who require an overnight stay.  Please note, another hotel has been contacted for reservations for several individuals because the block of rooms at The Ritz-Carlton ran out.  The document does show who will be staying at the other hotel (The DoubleTree, Tyson's Corner, please note address on attachment).  Also, please confirm the arrival/departure date on the rooming list.  It is very important that this information be correct. For those staying at the Doubletree Hotel, I have requested shuttle service for the morning of the 13th at 7:15am for travel to The Ritz Carlton hotel. Tuesday, September 12 ---- The first item on the agenda is dinner on September 12 (day of arrival).  Dinner will take place at Maggiano's Little Italy Restaurant at 7pm.  The restaurant is located in the Mall at Tyson's Corner which is connected to The Ritz Carlton.  The dress for this restaurant is casual to business casual.   Please confirm your attendance with me again.  I'd like to get an accurate head count. Wednesday, September 13 ----- Department Meeting: Meeting will begin at 8:00am with a continental breakfast available starting at 7:15am.  The location of the meeting will be in Salon I (located on the 5th floor).  Lunch will take place at 12:00 (noon) and end at 1:30pm.  The extra time for the lunch hour will allow for checking messages.  The breakout sessions will start at 2:15pm and conclude by 4:00pm.   The sessions will take place in the Consulate Room and The Plaza Room which are both located on the 6th floor. An agenda is attached to this e:mail for your viewing.  Dress for the meeting will be casual to business casual. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Systems 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 11/10/2000 03:22 PM 
Systems Please forward this to Rick's group.  Thanks. Please note that these FERC staff reports contain some potentially helpful information that can be used at the state PUC level, including information on the increase in generation in the Midwest that market participants attribute to lack of price caps following the summer 1998 price spikes; better preparation for summer 2000 through the use of forward contracts and transmission problems that may have resulted in keeping cheaper power from particular markets. On 11/1/00, FERC Staff issued reports on its Investigation of Bulk Power Markets in the Eastern Interconnection.  These reports were the result of a Commission order earlier this summer.  Enron's Federal regulatory staff (Christi, Charles Yeung, and Sarah Novosel) provided a great deal of information for this investigation and Joe Hartsoe and Donna Fulton discussed many of the problems with the grid with the new head of Staff, Scott Miller (who recently joined FERC from PG&E Gen).    While the Commission is under no obligation to take any of Staff's recommendations, the Commission typically looks to Staff for guidance on transmission and market issues.  Importantly, Staff concludes that the Commission should consider these options for the Southeast and Midwest -- all of which Enron has been asking FERC to implement for several years: Reduce the advantages of network service over point to point service by requiring that native load be served under the same tariff as other transmission services to eliminate the current incentives that VIUs have to favor their native load through the calculation of ATC and handling of interconnection requests. While the Staff Hotline is used productively, the Commission can direct Staff to conduct formal investigations into entities that have a pattern of complaints. The Commission could require TPs to submit tariff provisions containing a pro forma interconnection process specific to interconnection, rather than simply relying on the Tennessee Power order that utilizes the OATT timelines and procedures. Require TPs to retain real-time transmission data on market functions pertaining to daily load, internal generation to meet that load, and imports and exports. RTOs should submit the basis and methods for calculating ATC and TTC, as well as standardized criteria for curtailment.  In addition, since even such standardized criteria might not ""get to the root of the problem"" -- that control area still control generation -- the Commission could require that each RTO set a date certain by which it will create one control area. Regardless of the implementation of these two options, the Commission could standardize ATC and TTC methodology. Staff finds that while electricity is a commodity with market characteristics similar to many other commodities, it is still viewed as ""different,"" with a reaction of price caps.  Staff encourages that basic decisions about the regulatory model be made in order to complete the transition from a traditional cost-of-service model to a model that uses markets to price the commodity and services. DETAILS  (Also, the reports contain good summaries of the generation, transmission, state retail, federal reg. and other issues for the region): Midwest:  The Midwest is dominated by vertically integrated Transmission Providers (""TPs"") that control transmission, generation and load.  ""As such, they have weak economic incentives to provide access to transmission service to third-parties and strong incentives to favor their own services.""  Staff received numerous complaints; however, due to the lack of information available from TPs, Staff cannot conclude whether these are isolated incidents or wide-spread.  At the very least, the complaints indicate a lack of confidence in the bulk power market and the ability of market participants to rely on transmission access, thus harming the liquidity of the market. TLRs are the most important transmission issue in the Midwest, with an ""enormous"" increase in 2000.  The region showed a decline in peak load from 1999 to 2000 and a growth in new generation since the 1998 price spikes. Even though there was an increase in generation and mild weather with virtually no price spikes, TLRs climbed to record numbers.  The TLRs were highly concentrated:  only 5 flowgates account for 41% of ECAR TLRs and another 5 flowgates in MAIN account for 42% in that region.  Notably, even though the NERC procedures for Level 3 TLRs mandate transaction curtailment, 78 of the 191 TLRs in the Midwest do not show any curtailment amount.  The total amount of relief that these curtailments are intended to produce are not posted.  Staff notes that TLR rules are established by NERC, whose procedures are voluntary and not enforced by penalties.  While the Commission has required certain NERC standards and procedures to be placed in Open Access Transmission Tariffs (""OATT"") where the Commission has the power to enforce provisions under the Federal Power Act, in practice the Commission has generally deferred to NERC on transmission reliability questions, including the propriety of TLRs. TLRs inhibit optimal functioning of the transmission system and market because load is not served by the least cost supplier.  TLR procedure is an inefficient instrument in mitigating constraints -- curtailment by fiat.  In addition, the NERC IDC can result in inappropriate curtailments or increased loading on the affected flowgate.  The impact could be mitigated by one control area per RTO. Staff notes that the Midwest state commissions did not petition FERC for price caps following the 1998 price spikes.  Some market participants believe that the absence of price spikes is the single reason that NUG construction increased in the Midwest. Market participants must keep track of, and follow, a plethora of information in order to make energy deals, submit reservations and provide schedules for service.  Staff received many complaints about barriers to transmission access, including TLR curtailments and a lack of standardized information and protocols, particularly for ATC and interconnection requests, and discriminatory conduct.  Unbelievably, key data was unavailable to Staff, such coincident peak load data, system-wide snap shots for days when TLRs were called, and import/export data.  This lack of data creates a market inefficiency, because neither market participants nor regulators can fully analyze market conditions in real time.  As such, the market is risk adverse, eschewing long-term deals for short-term transactions.  Staff also noted that because the Security Coordinators often work for the IOU, there is a mixed incentive to enforce reliability on the grid and maximize profit for the IOU.  (Staff cites Richard Tabors' paper, ""Transmission Markets, Stretching the Rules for Fun and Profit."") Staff cites the lack of information on OASIS or on the NERC web site, particularly about real time TLRs and curtailments.  Examples were provided to Staff of transmission refusals when there were no TLRs posted and improper implementation of TLRs causing substantial financial loss. The currently proposed Midwest RTOs may mitigate some problems; however, all three retain existing control areas with the favortism for generation and native load.  These incentives will continue to remain until the RTO exercises complete autonomy over transmission control and security coordinator functions.  Staff notes that the Midwest is a balkanized region of 61 control areas with no uniform method for calculating ATC and CBM.  The result is that ATCs can be different on 2 different sides of an interface. Staff notes examples in inaccurate ATCs and states that Staff's own ATC audit this summer was consistent with market participant complaints.  Staff is weighing follow-up options.  The result of these problems is a lack of liquidity. Staff next noted the problems with unfiled ""business practices,"" especially on the next hour market.  Staff's audit of OASIS sites revealed several areas of non-compliance. Information transparency is necessary for a market to function efficiently, with equal and timely access to data, including ATC, CBM, TRM, and load flow input data.  TPs have incentives to resist efforts to make this information transparent because of native load.  This incentive will still exist under RTOs if utilities are allowed to calculate their own ATC.  ***  ""As a consequence, the Commission may wish to eliminate the native load exemption and have all transactions under the same tariff.""  ***  The Commission could benefit by having access to existing transmission data and should require the TPs to retain data, including current real-time network status. Interconnection Issues:  IPPs need to be compensated for VAR support.  Also, Staff cites a number of Hotline complaints about TPs seeking large deposits or failing to complete System Impact Studies timely.  One solution is to have the RTO handle this function to eliminate the disincentive the utilities have against IPPs.  The current practice of requiring IPPs to deal with a wide variety of procedures inhibits the free flow of transactions within the region. Network service has inherent advantages over point-to-point, citing the 
online bulletin board 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
online bulletin board [[ MAPI 1.0 storage : 5416 in winmail.dat ]] NARUC and DOE are the hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring in Dallas, Texas, on November 29 to December 1.  This email is an update on recent developments in the Summit. Newly confirmed speakers include Commissioner Linda Breathitt, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), chairman of the House Energy and Power Subcommittee; Phil Sharp, Lecturer in Public Policy, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University; Kurt Yaeger, president and CEO, Electric Power Research Institute; Bob Anderson, commissioner, Montana Public Service Commission; Karen O'Neill, vice president for new markets, GreenMountain.com; Steve Ward, public advocate, Maine Attorney General's office; Donato Eassay, vice president, securities research and economics, Merrill Lynch; Rick Rumbarger, president and CEO, PowerTrust.com; Kathleen Magruder, Vice President, Government Affairs, The New Power Company (a joint venture of IBM, Enron, and AOL) We have established a bulletin board for the Summit.  You can access the bulletin board through the following link: http://www.energymarkets.org/cgi-bin/Ultimate.cgi?action=intro.  The Forums in this board will permit you to ask questions or raise issues for the speakers on each of the panels at the Summit. You can register for the Summit at http://www.energymarkets.org/registration.htm. Information on reserving a room a the Adams Mark is at http://www.energymarkets.org/city_site.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in the subject of the Summit. Thanks! Isabel Barreto North American Summit Coordinator Center for the Advancement of Energy Markets 5765-F Burke Center Parkway (PMB333) Burke, VA 22015-2233 Voicemail and Fax: (703) 234-3373 E-mail: ibarreto@caem.org http://www.caem.org Thanks! Isabel Barreto North American Summit Coordinator Center for the Advancement of Energy Markets 5765-F Burke Center Parkway (PMB333) Burke, VA 22015-2233 Voicemail and Fax: (703) 234-3373 E-mail: ibarreto@caem.org http://www.caem.org 
FYI - see e:mail below from Sarah Novosel. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate this summary to everyone in government affairs. = =20 The summary is similar to the summary Christi sent to you on Friday on FERC= =20 Staff's report on the midwest and southeast regions. Thanks Ginger Sarah 
Attached is a summary of FERC Staff=01,s November 1, 2000 report on its=20 investigation of the Northeast region.  The report is very encouraging=20 because it is comprehensive and recommends many of the changes and solution= s=20 that Enron has been advocating for years.  The report is also encouraging= =20 because it indicates a significant level of understanding of the northeast= =20 markets (and the problems in these markets) by the FERC people who worked o= n=20 this report.  Because this is only a brief summary, the entire report=20 (particularly sections 4 and 5) should be read in detail.  A copy of the=20 report is attached. Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah =20 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline 
I have a paid registration to the DOE-NARUC conference up for grabs.  Does anybody want it?  First come, first serve! gngr 713-853-7751 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline DOE and NARUC are hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring on November 29 to December 1 in Dallas. More information is available at http://www.energymarkets.org. Just a quick note to remind you that the early registration discount deadline is Friday, October 27.  To register, go to http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/NA_Summit/registration.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in this event. - winmail.dat 
FYI - Sue and Dan have not been receiving e:mails since yesterday, Thursday, August 31.  Please call Sue or Dan if you require anything. 603-224-5942 - Sue Nord 603-223-0985 - Dan Allegretti Thanks 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
If you have not responded to me regarding your attendance at the above referenced meeting, please do so by 12:00pm (noon) tomorrow. The meeting on December 8, is scheduled to begin at 8:30am and conclude by no later than 4:00pm (maybe even earlier).  Hope this helps in flight schedules.. gngr 713-853-7751 
The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting will be held in Houston, TX at the DoubleTree Hotel on Friday, December 8, 2000.  A block of rooms has been reserved under ""Enron Corp - Government Affairs"" and each individual is required to make their own reservation.  The group dinner will be held on Thursday, December 7 at Ruggles Restaurant, Enron Field at 7:00pm.  Please let me know of your plans to attend the dinner and meeting by Wednesday, November 15. Hotel information below: DoubleTree Hotel 400 Dallas Street Houston, TX 77002 713-759-0202  Phone # 713-654-0727  Fax# Additional information regarding the meeting will follow, but please remember to make your reservation and call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Please see e:mail from Nancy Hetrick below. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, would you please distribute this e-mail to everyone in Government Affairs.  Thanks. As you all know, Enron has been actively participating in an industry-wide collaborative effort, working to develop recommended Uniform Business Practices (UBP) for Retail Energy Markets.  This effort was in direct response to the Coalition for Uniform Business Rules (CUBR) report, which was published in September 1999.  THE UBP released Volume 1 of a two-volume final report on November 22, 2000.   Volume 1 includes recommend business practices for the following topics:  Customer Information, Customer Enrollment & Switching, Billing & Payment Processing, Exhibit - Billing Services Agreement, Load Profiling, Supplier Licensing, Market Participant Interaction( MPI):  Governing Documents and Performance Standards, Exhibit - Outline for Master Service Agreement, Disputes Between Utility and the Supplier, Customer Inquiries, Exhibit - Customer Account Maintenance and Glossary.  Also included in the document is an Introduction and a Preface. We would like to promote the use of this UBP report as a key item to be included in Enron's advocacy efforts for state restructuring legislation and commission implementation proceedings.  This report can be downloaded and printed from the following website:  http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/index.htm .  If you would prefer to receive a printed copy of this report, please e-mail me with your request and we will make the necessary arrangments for the report to be printed and distributed. Volume 2 which will address unbundled electricity metering will be published by year-end 2000.  I will let you know when this portion of the report is available. Also, please feel free to contact me if you have any questions regarding this report or if you would like assistance in promoting the use of the UBP report within the various states.  Vinio Floris, who has recently joined our group, will also be working with me to promote the use of this report.  Barbara Hueter is also devoting time to this project by participating with other 
The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting will soon be upon us. Dinner at Ruggles Restaurant, Enron Field, Thursday, December 7 will begin at 7:00pm and will be casual dress.  For those of you staying at the Doubletree, there is shuttle service available from the hotel.  Please contact the Concierge desk 25 minutes before departure to request the shuttle service. The address for the restaurant is: 333 Crawford Street, Houston, TX  77002 (713)259-8080. The department meeting on Friday, December 8 will begin at 8:30am and conclude by 3:00pm and will  take place at the Doubletree Hotel in the De Zavala room (please see attached agenda).  It's Friday, so casual dress is required!   A continental breakfast will be available beginning at 7:30am for all the early birds. One last thing, the room block will be cut off by close of business tomorrow, Thursday, November 30.  Please make your room reservation if you haven't done so already. Look forward to seeing everyone next week and please call me with any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Competition... - CERA Alert 
See msg. from Margaret Carson. gngr 713-853-7751 
Competition... - CERA Alert Ginger, Please send this to all govt affairs people  as it has  some very good insights into State by State initiatives.  Thanks,   Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert Some  good insight  here..Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Wed, November 29, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: Limited Chances to Play Won't Bench the Competition... Author: Biehl, Behrens E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Retail Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1430 , Alternative URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ref/alt/112900_19/ref_alt_112900_19_ab.html ********************************************************* RETAIL MARKTERS SEE OPPORTUNITY IN NONTRADITIONAL WAYS TO GROW CUSTOMER BASE With a tight supply-demand balance for natural gas and power in most US regions, CERA sees another difficult year ahead for retail marketers. * Nontraditional means of acquiring customer bases may offer a better opportunity for retail marketers to build market share in 2001 in order to be better positioned when more attractive retail market opportunities open in 2002. * Competitive retail suppliers are looking closely at supplying the regulated customer base (through standard offer or default service) and municipal aggregation to build customer base. Movements by regulators to reset prices below market standard offers for power are improving market conditions in several US Northeast states. **end** Follow URL for complete Monthly Briefing. ********************************************************* Come Shoot the Rapids with us at CERAWeek2001, ""Shooting the Rapids: Strategies and Risks for the Energy Future"" in Houston, February 12-16, 2001!  For more information and to register, please visit http://www.cera.com/ceraweek/ ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Forwarding info. below per the request of Christi Nicolay. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to Rick's group in North America, Canada and PR.  Thanks. 
FYI - Update:  The dinner at Ruggles tomorrow will require you to wear your coat.  The roof is likely to be open at Enron Field and the weather looks like it will be a chilly     hi?57oF -  lo?49oF. Thanks gngr 
FYI - Roy Boston is w/o a computer until Friday.  If you have sent anything to him via e:mail, he won't be able to respond. Thanks gngr 
Attached are the presentations from the Government Affairs-The Americas dept. meeting which was held on Friday, December 8.  For those of you who missed the special presentation for Rick, it is attached for your viewing pleasure (see luggage). gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Robin and Gia became the proud parents of Sophia Abigail on Monday, December 11, at 9:50 am.  She weighed 9 and 1/2 pounds and is 21 inches long.  Robin and Sophia are both doing well, as is Gia, although he reports being a bit 
Please see the attached update from Richard S. Shapiro, Managing Director, Government Affairs-The Americas. 
Hello Everyone: Next week is around the corner and I want to inform each of you of some details. Location:  Omni Interlocken 500 Interlocken Boulevard Broomfield, CO  80021 Phone#:303-438-6600 Fax#:303-438-7224 Check-in time  3:00 p.m. Check-out time  12:00 p.m. (Noon) Shuttle Service & Driving Directions:  Each person is responsible for their own transportation to/from the airport.  Please see the attached airport shuttle schedule. - SuperShuttle.doc - Directions from DIA with map.doc Meeting Place on morning of June 14:  The meeting will take place in ""Interlocken A"" conference room.  The meeting will begin @ 8:15 AM and will conclude by 11:30 am.  A continental breakfast will be served beginning at 7:00 am. Agenda: Lunch:  I have made arrangements for Box Lunches to be available for everyone directly after the meeting.  They will be served outside of the meeting room at 11:30 AM. Attire:   I'm all for CASUAL Golf:  Tee times are set as follows: 12:39, 12:48, 12:57, 1:06, 1:15, & 1:24pm.  The Eldorado is the course you will be playing on.  A shuttle has been scheduled to pick up everyone beginning at 11:45 am.  All golfers are to check in at the golf shop; from there your clubs and carts will be assigned.   I will e:mail the teams list next week, along with your tee time.  Golf attire: Proper golf attire includes golf slacks, golf shorts, and spikeless golf shoes.  Men must wear collared shirts, and women must wear ""golf appropriate"" shirts.  Player's not conforming to this policy will not be given access to the golf course. Whitewater Rafting: A deluxe motorcoach is scheduled to pick-up the rafters at 12:30 pm at the East Entrance/Garden level of the resort.  Folks, the water will be cold; it might be a good idea to take a towel or jacket for the ride back to the resort.  Also, rivershoes are recommended for this activity, as well as, sunscreen and hats.   No cotton or flip-flop sandals.  Have Fun!!!! Hiking: A deluxe motorcoach is scheduled to pick-up the hikers at 12:30 pm at the East Entrance/Garden Level of the resort.  Please check the attached link for a weather update below.   Recommended attire:  Shorts or hiking attire, appropriate footwear, sunglasses, sunscreen and hats. Spa Services:  If you have not made your spa arrangements, please do so soon.  The number to call for spa services is 303-438-6600 Dinner:  A buffet dinner will be served at the fairways tent (at the golf course).  You can't miss it!!!!!  Your choice of transportation to the golf course is up to you.  You can either walk (about 1 mile on sidewalk) or take the shuttle.   It is best to request the service 15-20 minutes prior to dinner time or drinks time.   Dinner will begin at 7:00pm and wine & beer will be served 30 minutes prior. Weather: Please click on the attached link for a Colorado weather update. http://www.weather.com/weather/local/USCO0105 Final Reservation/Activity List:  Attached is the final list of arrivals/departures, as well as, activities everyone is participating in. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call if you have any questions. gngr 
Okay golfers, a tournament of sorts will be played in Colorado.  I need to know the following: 1)  average score And, I need to know this ASAP.  I will have the tournament director help with putting the teams together. Thanks for all your help! gngr 713-853-7751 
Howdy Golfers, I need some information before you all play your ""par"" game of golf next week. 1) Will you be bringing your own golf clubs? 2) If I need to reserve clubs for you, please let me know if you are right or left handed. Thanks!!!!!! gngr 
FYI again. gngr 713-853-7751 
There will not be a call on Thursday, June 14. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 janette.elbertson@enron.com 
The California Litigation weekly conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. today has been cancelled. Also, please note there will not be a call on Thursday, June 15. Thank you. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 janette.elbertson@enron.com 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Litigation weekly conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. today has been cancelled. Also, please note there will not be a call on Thursday, June 15. Thank you. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 
These talking points are to help you address questions about the Front Line program that took place last night. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beyond the two excellent editorials in today's WSJ (attached) the following should be the key messages: 1.  The show was an aimless wander through the well-worn territory of blame-game politics, with a healthy dose of fear mongering thrown in. 2.  It should not surprise anyone that two Berkley-based journalists, working in conjunction with the New York Times, would ignore Econ 101 and suggest that the solution for California's energy crisis is to subject the entire nation to Roosevelt era New Deal regulations.  Such pinings have been abandoned over the past 65 years, but if the New York Times wants to stake out that position ... fine.  It will probably help sharpen the debate and set up a clear victory for the market when supply comes onstream and prices moderate.  (Much sooner than the decades of legal wrangling to return to New Deal regulations.) 3.  The show completely ignored the failings of California's political and regulatory leadership to moderate or even eliminate the crisis when they had a chance. 4.  Of the electricity consumed in California, less than 15 percent is generated by companies headquartered in Texas.  More than 50 percent of the electricity in California is generated by municipal entities that have been charging the same high prices as the Texas ""pirates.""  These good pirates include the Bonneville Power Administration, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Government of British Columbia, and the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. Business World: California's Ship of Fools By Holman W. Jenkins Jr. 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A27 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Lamenting the politician's lot in ""Profiles in Courage,"" John F. Kennedy wrote that ""In no other occupation is it expected that a man will sacrifice honors, prestige and his chosen career on a single issue."" Of course, no politician would last long if he didn't blow with the wind nine times out of 10. But on the tenth occasion even California has the right to expect some courage. We don't know what happens when an advanced economy like California's suffers day after day of blackouts. We may be about to find out. Modern office architecture becomes uninhabitable without air-conditioning and elevators. Old people and asthmatics may die in the heat. So may drivers at unlit traffic crossings. Steps could still be taken to lessen the blackouts, but voters wouldn't know the difference, and it's so much easier to cast blame. Gov. Gray Davis prates about a ""war with Texas."" And who knows what secret failures as a human being led Bill Lockyer, the attorney general, to threaten Enron's Ken Lay with homosexual rape in the California prison system. California has found itself singularly lacking in heroes in its hour of crisis. Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Davis harp on price, but the true problem is the unavailability of power at any price to meet the demand that exists under the current structure of retail rates. Both must know the solution they noisily advocate, federal price controls slapped across Western electricity markets, wouldn't bring power into existence to close the gap. Their proposal would simply saddle the feds with the dirty job of apportioning blackouts from California's mistakes across half a dozen other states. In California itself, municipal utilities in Santa Clara, Palo Alto and other towns have already announced they won't participate in rolling blackouts. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power certainly isn't volunteering. Why should voters in other states? Why not just cut the lines and let California monopolize the darkness? A state review board in Washington has already vetoed a proposed plant rather than suffer local pollution for power destined for California. Mr. Davis knows this; he knows price controls would create a new problem without solving the shortages. Meanwhile, the specter nobody wants to talk about is the state of California itself headed for bankruptcy if it continues to be willing to pay any price to satisfy the demand of consumers shielded from the true cost of power. Mr. Davis's version of the Big Lie is that Texas is to blame. Texas companies account for just 12% of California's supply, having bought 7,000 of the 20,000 megawatts that local utilities were forced to sell under ""deregulation."" Being in the right place at the right time has always been profitable, but any windfall has been spread widely among suppliers of gas, pipeline capacity, storage and ancillary services. Take Enron: Its revenues quadrupled in the past year, but so did its costs, and profits are up only 31%. A leaked California memo names as two of the biggest ""gougers"" BC Hydro, owned by Canadian taxpayers, and the U.S. Bonneville Power Administration. Their sin was letting their reservoirs fill up overnight while meeting local needs with spot-market power, so they could sell their own production for higher prices to California during the day. These are precisely efforts that might stop if price controls were imposed across the West, making the shortages worse, probably much worse. Northwestern smelters might be better off reclaiming the cheap hydro they've been passing on to California -- 3,000 megawatts, enough for two million homes. Farmers could resume irrigating. Seattle, Tacoma, Boise and other neighbors have all done what California has failed yet to do, hiking rates to curb demand. Rather than emulate them, Gov. Davis's peacock of an energy czar, David Freeman, babbles about ""public power,"" the answer to a question nobody asked, the solution to a nonexistent problem. Prices of electricity and natural gas for future delivery are already falling as investors race to build new plants and pipelines to meet the state's future needs. Markets foresee the crisis ending without Mr. Freeman's antique New Deal schemes. What's been missing while folks like him ride their hobby horses, though, is the courage to take steps necessary to minimize the suffering this summer. One large source of untapped power is California's own small generators, known as qualifying facilities. Their fee scale is set by the state, but California couldn't even summon the political competence to keep them in business, so 3,000 megawatts sit idle. People have tried to attach all kinds of ideological baggage to the California mess, but we wouldn't be here if water flows in the Columbia River system weren't down 54% from normal. Last summer, California's fossil-fuel generators increased their output by a whopping 62% to make up the shortfall, mostly by running existing plants harder. Yes, there have been flaky prices, partly because, mysteriously, California continues to use a discredited computer program to book a large chunk of its power one hour in advance. But the flaky prices also represent a system pulling out all stops to save California from itself. We said back in December there's only one solution: Jack up rates to stop consumers trying to burn more power than the state can beg, borrow or steal. The only question was when Gov. Davis would find the courage. Hard to believe, but the price hikes his regulators approved in March are still on the drawing board and busily being watered down. Someone should point out to Gov. Davis that the author of ""Profiles in Courage"" wasn't endorsing career suicide but suggesting that politicians must husband their leadership for times when it really counts. Not a few people in public life understand this. Al Gore openly yearned for the day when he could justify the compromises and trimming he's done in his life. But Mr. Davis is perhaps too lost in the dark to understand he is blowing the whole reason to have a political career. What borders on the stupefying, though, is the failure of any other Californian of prominence to step forward and speak truth about the power crisis. By all rights Gov. Davis should be a political leper, yet he actually stands a microscopic chance of being re-elected because of the sheer poverty, in a state of 34 million people, of the Republican opposition. Arnold Schwarzenegger is looking better all the time. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial) California Squeaks By 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A26 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) The California energy crisis is now more than a year old and Governor Gray Davis has done nothing but squeak at it. At first, he attacked out-of-state power generators for being pirates and marauders. But lately he has focused on FERC and President Bush, demanding that the federal government place price caps on the sale of wholesale power. He's even rustled up 10 economists -- including the dad of deregulation, Alfred Kahn -- to support him. Well, as most everybody knows -- including the economists who have come out in favor of them -- price caps don't work. If caps are set too low, (as politics often dictate), existing supply will shrink and demand will grow, making the situation worse. Even ""correctly"" set price caps will discourage additional supply and do nothing to moderate demand. The usual result is an aggravation of shortages and rationing. Indeed, the history of price caps, particularly during the energy crisis in the early 1970s -- when oil prices were capped and lines at gasoline stations were long -- bears this out. The pro-price-caps argument however is a clever one. It rests on the notion that there is no ""effective competition"" in the California energy market. According to one of the 10 pro-price-cap economists, Paul Joskow at MIT, the energy market in California is characterized by inelastic demand and very, very tight supplies, which conspire to produce, at certain times, prices above those that would have obtained under competitive conditions. Mr. Joskow examined the California energy market during the summer of 2000, looking at market fundamentals (the broad forces determining supply and demand); he found that 25% to 30% of the wholesale prices of electricity during June, July and August cannot be explained by market fundamentals and should be attributed to market imperfections. As an argument for price caps, this is hardly overwhelming. Especially since there are several perfectly respectable and compelling reasons to look no further than market fundamentals. Such as the fact that the price of the most important input for almost half the electricity generated in California, natural gas, has been rising over the past year. Such as the fact that natural gas pipelines are filled to capacity, thus bidding up the price to transmit. Such as the fact that the worst drought in the Northwest in 60 years has reduced the amount of hydroelectric power in the market, putting even more demands on natural gas generation. Such as the fact that imports into the state, which were running 20% and up to 25% during peak usage, have declined. And the fact that the price of tradable permits for NOx emissions -- which must be held by plants generating electricity -- has skyrocketed. Not least the fact that demand in California during the past several years, unfettered by rate increases, has zoomed dramatically. At any rate, electric power is increasingly expensive all over the country; indeed, California's neighbors, the states of Washington, Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Montana, have had to bump up utility rates 30% to 50%. So where is the tablet of stone saying that California, with its especially restrictive environmental regulations, should be any different? The bad news for California is that, poor dears, it can't be different. Market fundamentals, like supply and demand, rule. But that's also the good news. High wholesale prices (and necessary profits) have done their job; they have brought forth a number of suppliers, in the form of more than a dozen plans for significant new generating plants; in fact, plans have even been announced to build more natural gas transmission pipelines. Too, demand has started to abate; peak demand on a monthly basis has fallen 4% to 9% from last year, doubtless a response to a ""temporary"" 10% rate hike in January and the California Public Utilities Commission's decision in March to finally really, really raise rates by as much as 50% on average. (The details of that plan were announced in May and rate increases will show up on this month's bills.) So California's blame-shifting pols can point fingers til the state freezes over. The market is working, and imposing price caps would not only interrupt that process, but would be unnecessary. Of course, there is a painful lag between the market signals of high prices due to shortages and the market remedies of increased supply and lower demand. And California will probably feel lots of that pain this summer in the form of continued high prices and blackouts. But, in the long run, the market will be successful in creating new supply and lower prices. Unfortunately California's energy glut will probably come too late to avoid a siege of political spinning and demagoguery. Ultimately we have to hope Californians will understand it is their politics that has served them poorly. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Below, please find the number for the conf. call scheduled today! 
Attached, please find the ""West Desk Organizational Chart"".  Please note, this is chart is for ""internal use"" ONLY! gngr 713-853-7751 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The California Litigation Team weekly conference call scheduled for today has been cancelled.  It will be held next Thursday, June 7, from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m. Central time. Janette Elbertson Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 
The next scheduled Campaign Leadership call for Thursday, May 31 is being rescheduled to Friday, June 1 @ 4:00 P.M.  The dial number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. These calls are mandatory so, in the future, if you are unable to participate on the call, please let Rick or myself know. Thanks! gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
This was sent to me today by a person who asks to remain anonymous. It appears this press release is being routed to members of the  press: Lora ****************************************************************************** ***** ACORN Launches Campaign to Win Changes from  Enron Contact: Lisa Clauson at MaAcorn@Acorn.org or (617) 436-7100  (office), (617) 233-5497 (cel.), or David Swanson at (202)  547-2500. ACORN, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform  Now, has launched a nationwide campaign to persuade the nation's largest  energy supplier, the Houston-based Enron corporation, to put some of its  enormous record profits into assistance for low-income Americans who cannot  afford their skyrocketing utilities bills. The campaign was launched  with demonstrations in eight cities on May 21.? In Washington D.C., 100  ACORN members from D.C., Philadelphia, and Baltimore, protested at an Enron  office and demanded a meeting to discuss their concerns.?  Representatives of ACORN and Enron met on May 22 to open  the discussion. ""We told them our campaign was just getting started,  and they could expect the pressure to build if they decline to work with us  on a solution in the near future.? Summer is almost here, and elderly  people and children without fans and air-conditioning are going to be in  danger,"" said Kathy Tomosky, an ACORN member from Philadelphia. While  ACORN has been pushing local governments to do their part, and has worked to  increase funding for LIHEAP (the Low-Income Home-Energy Assistance Program),  its members believe wholesalers, which are making huge profits as others face  crises, also have a responsibility to act. Other Demonstrations on Monday  Included: In Sacramento, 250 ACORN members from around California protested  at the offices of Enron's lobbying company, Governmental Associates.?  They also protested at the Capitol, demanding a meeting with Gov. Gray Davis  to discuss the need for a moratorium on shut-offs and the need for lower  rates for low- and moderate-income people. In Portland, ACORN members  took over the 17th-floor office of Enron/Portland General Electric and staged  a sit-in, until they won a commitment to a meeting with PGE's CEO. In  Chicago, 70 ACORN members marched into the 36th-floor office of Enron. They  persuaded the staff to fax a letter to Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay  (see below), and arranged to schedule a meeting with Enron in  Chicago. ACORN members also took over the lobby of Enron's headquarters  in Houston, and demonstrated at Enron offices in Manhattan, Denver, and  Albuquerque. THE CASE AGAINST ENRON Energy wholesalers, like Enron,  and their top executives, are raking in outrageous record profits, while  millions of Americans are facing bills that have doubled and tripled, putting  many at risk of losing their electricity and at risk of losing their lives  during this summer's heat spells.? During heat spells in previous years,  hundreds of children and elderly people without fans or air conditioning have  perished. The Bush energy plan does nothing to address the immediate  crisis of this summer - a crisis that will literally be a question of life  and death for tens of thousands of small children and the elderly.?  Senior citizens on fixed incomes and hard workers fighting to support  families on low wages will face hot days without the electricity to run a  fan, cook food, or refrigerate milk for the kids.? Inflated energy bills  are effectively reducing the standard of living for millions of Americans to  pre-World War II levels in a world less adapted to life without power.?  Price gouging by wholesalers and inaction by the White House could condemn  thousands of people to a painful death.? Bush's devotion to corporate  profits will apparently not give way even in the face of these real tragedies  looming over so many of our grandparents and grandchildren. Five years  ago 700 people died in Chicago during a two-week heat spell.? subsequent examination of the dead by the Chicago Tribune found that  almost all were lower income seniors or young kids who did not have  air conditioning and who were trying to save on their electric bills by  not running their fans at night. Many were without power. Enron, the  nation's biggest energy supplier, saw its profits increase 42 percent in  2000.? Its revenue more than doubled to $100.8 billion from only $40  billion in 1999, an increase of 152 percent.? The vast majority of  Enron 's business involves buying electricity from power plants and selling  it at a markup to local utility companies. While millions of Americans  are facing choices between utilities and food, between utilities and health  insurance, between utilities and childcare, Enron executives aren't feeling  the pinch.? Enron's Chairman, Kenneth Lay received a $7 million bonus as  reward for an ""extremely strong year.""? Lay's salary last year gave him  another $1.3 million.? He also collected $7.5 million in restricted  stock awards, plus options for 782,830 shares that could be valued at $35  million if Enron's stock appreciated 10 percent annually. Families now  struggling to pay their bills are available to comment. Contact Chris Saffert  at (202) 547-2500. Lay is living like a king while inflicting suffering  on others, and our government is aiding and abetting this behavior.? The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has refused to act to make energy  affordable for residential users. Texas, the home of George Bush, is also  home to the largest energy suppliers in the country, including Enron.?  Enron executives and employees contributed more than $500,000 to Bush's  campaigns for governor and president. About $350,000 came from Lay, who was  one of the Bush ""Pioneers"" who raised at least $100,000 for the presidential  campaign. Lay also gave Bush use of Enron's private jet during the  presidential race. For the inaugural festivities, Lay, Enron Chief Executive  Jeff Skilling, and the corporation itself, each contributed the maximum  $100,000. Does this perhaps explain Bush's reluctance to do anything to  help California consumers?? Enron sold natural gas and electric power  in California last year.? According to a study by the California  Independent System Operator, Enron earned excess profits of $28 million by  exercising market power.? Enron is being sued for violating the City of  San Francisco's unfair business practices law.? Santa Clara County has  joined a lawsuit against power suppliers including Enron, alleging they  conspired to raise prices and boost profits while subjecting consumers to  higher bills and blackouts. ACORN's Demands: ACORN demands a  nationwide moratorium on utility shutoffs this summer for the elderly and  families with children -- to be funded with an excess profit tax on wholesale  energy suppliers. ACORN demands national price caps on utility costs for  residential use. ACORN demands that Enron use some of its vast profits  for an expanded energy assistance program, help leverage federal government  funding for energy assistance, and assist in the creation of a conservation  program that will supply low-income consumers with home audits,  energy-efficient appliances, and other energy-saving steps. LETTER  THAT HAS BEEN FAXED: Kenneth Lay, Chair Enron Corporation 1400  Smith Street Houston, TX 77002 May 21, 2001 Dear Mr.  Lay: We write to request a meeting to discuss the sky high fuel costs  that are posing a huge and unmanageable burden for low and moderate income  people across the country. We believe that you, along with the other major  power suppliers across the country, especially those which have enjoyed  windfall profits as our budgets have been stretched to the breaking point,  have a real responsibility to make sure that our families do not have to  continue to make such difficult choices between fuel and food or medicine. We  want to talk with you about what we can do together to ease this  burden. Enron has been making windfall profits selling power, and  thereby contributing to the suffering of our members and other community  residents from record high utility bills that threaten families ability to  meet our basic needs.? ACORN demands that Enron take real steps to help  solve the problems that they have helped create. 1. We need to end  skyrocketing utility bills which leave us totally unable to make ends meet,  and threaten vulnerable people with air-conditioning and refrigeration shut  offs in the dangerous summer heat.? Enron must respond to the immediate  crisis by contributing 2% of their profits, or $250 million to a fuel  emergency fund to provide assistance to low and moderate income consumers,  and especially the elderly, children,? and people with health problems,  in paying their utility bills.? A limited portion of the funds should be  dedicated to outreach to sign up eligible participants. 2. We need to  help people reduce costs in the long terms by making their homes more energy  efficient.? Enron must? provide funds to support comprehensive  residential conservation efforts in both owner occupied and rental  properties.? Such efforts would include home audits to determine  what was needed, along with the provision and installation of  appropriate technology including power saving refrigerators, improved  insulation and sealing of doors, windows, and pipes, etc, 3. We need  basic access, affordability, and fair rates for the future. Enron  must? : - Support ACORN's demand for a moratorium on shut offs to  vulnerable populations including households with elderly people, young  children, and people with health problems - Support ACORN's efforts to win  a comprehensive and government supported program to cap utility payments for  low and moderate income customers at a limited percentage of income -  Support price caps on wholesale electricity sales such as those proposed in  the Feinstein Smith bill. - Join ACORN in requesting a meeting between ACORN  and Vice President Dick Cheney to discuss energy costs. As you may  know, ACORN is the nation's oldest and largest grassroots organization of low  and moderate income people, with more than 125,000 member families across the  country. Over the years, we have been extremely active on issues relating to  utilities, and in recent months our members in cities from Chicago to  Philadelphia to St Louis and Seattle have been fighting to protect our  members and our communities from utility shut-offs, and for payment  assistance plans to help pay utility bills. We would appreciate a  response today on a date and time for a meeting between yourself and other  appropriate senior personnel, and a team of our senior leaders, within the  next two weeks.? You can contact me through our campaign director, Lisa  Clauson at 617-436-7100. Sincerely, Maude Hurd ACORN National  President Contact: Lisa Clauson at MaAcorn@Acorn.org or (617) 436-7100  (office), (617) 233-5497 (cel.), or David Swanson at (202)  547-2500. ACORN, the Association of Community Organizations for  Reform Now, is the nation's largest community organization of low- and  moderate-income families, with over 100,000 member families organized into  500 neighborhood chapters in 40 cities across the country. Since 1970 ACORN  has taken action and won victories on issues of concern to our members. Our  priorities include: better housing for first time homebuyers and tenants,  living wages for low-wage workers, more investment in our communities from  banks and governments, and better public schools. We achieve these goals by  building community organizations that have the power to win changes --  through direct action, negotiation, legislation, and voter  participation.? ACORN's website is at http://www.acorn.org.? To subscribe to  ACORN's Email list send an Email with only the words ""subscribe acornupdates""  in the body of the message to majordomo@Acorn.org. David  Swanson, communications coordinator ACORN, the Association of Community  Organizations for Reform Now 739 8th Street SE Washington, DC  20003 (202) 547-2500 p (202) 546-2483 f acornnews@acorn.org www.acorn.org To subscribe to ACORN's Email  list send an Email with only the words ""subscribe acornupdates"" in the body  of the message to majordomo@Acorn.org. 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 05/22/2001 04:22 PM 
Ginger--Please forward to the Rick's group. Entire East Power Group org. chart. 
Since Monday, May 28th is a holiday, the next RCR meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 29 at 12:00 PM (CDT). 
Please see note from Christi Nicolay and send all responses or questions to her attention. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger -- Can you please forward to our North America group.  Thanks. Some originators today reiterated how valuable Gov't Affairs can be in bringing deals (citing Tom Chapman -- Alamac and Dan Allegretti -UI).  The new East power services desk (headed by Lloyd Will and Tom May) is taking off and very interested in muni, industrial on-site generation purchases, scheduling, etc.  Origination (EPMI and EES) are interested in structured deals -- all requirements, tolling, etc.  Thanks for keeping this in mind while out there in the trenches! Christi N. 
The next scheduled RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, May 21.  Please see details below: 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation Please note for your review the following news article which appeared in the August 22, 2000 edition of the San Francisco Chronicle: [Ginger:  please also route/distribute to those whom you deem appropriate. Thanks!] Joseph Alamo Sr. Administrative Assistant Government Affairs - The Americas San Francisco CA ---------------------------------------------------------------------- This article was sent to you by someone who found it on SF Gate. The original article can be found on SFGate.com here: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/22/M N1901.DTL ---------------------------------------------------------------------- August 22, 2000 (SF Chronicle) Partial Electric Rate Freeze OKd for Hard-Hit San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation David Lazarus, Chronicle Staff Writer Responding to calls for action from Gov. Gray Davis, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a limited rate freeze yesterday for electricity users in San Diego, where power bills have skyrocketed in recent months. However, the measure was harshly criticized by San Diego officials and consumer activists as being an insufficient remedy for surging rates resulting from deregulation of the state's electricity market. They are now looking for relief from legislators in Sacramento, who are expected to vote today on a bill that would allow them to sidestep state energy regulators and impose more extensive restrictions on how much San Diegans can be charged for power. ""I'm extremely, extremely disappointed,"" said San Diego County Supervisor Dianne Jacob, who flew up for yesterday's PUC meeting in San Francisco with other local officials. Former San Diego Mayor Maureen O'Connor urged California legislators to scrap the state's electricity deregulation altogether. ""To continue the farce so that the whole state is under this terrorist economic endeavor is just ridiculous,"" she said. O'Connor added that Bay Area ratepayers should be concerned about what will happen when Pacific Gas and Electric Co. lifts a freeze on its own electricity rates, perhaps as soon as next summer. ""We already have the train wreck in San Diego,"" she said. ""It's coming 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Attached on the Cheney Report came via INGAA.  For those in the DC office, I have already printed hard copies if you would like one in that form.  These documents appear to be summaries and background materials on the Cheney report plus comparisons with the House Democrat's plan released yesterday. ? - Overview.pdf - Energy_Plans_Comparison.doc - energy_talkpoints_detailed.doc - energy_talkpoints_summary.doc - energy_q-a.doc - PIC06029.PCX 
You are correct! gngr 713-853-7751 Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 05/16/2001 05:08 PM 
Thank you.  So the leadership call is otherwise 4:30 PM CDT on Thursdays? 
The next scheduled Campaign Leadership call which is scheduled for Thursday, May 17 is being rescheduled as follows: 
Yes, with a temporary change for this week only!  The Leadership call will take place Friday, May 18 at 4:30 PM instead of Thursday, May 17 at 4:30 PM. gngr 713-853-7751 Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 05/16/2001 03:37 PM 
Apologies, but I'm trying to make sure that I have the meeting times right. Monday 10:30 AM CDT--""All hands"" meeting with business folks. Monday 3 PM CDT--Washington Call Tuesday/Thursday 1:30 PM CDT--California Call Thursday 4 PM CDT--Leadership call Do I have these right? Thanks a million. Best, Jeff 
Attached is an invitation to Marcia Linton's Retirement Party. 
Attached are the agenda's for the DC breakout sessions for your review. thanks gngr 
The last scheduled department meeting for the Government Affairs-The Americas group, for the YEAR 2000, will be Friday, December 8, 2000 in Houston, TX at the Doubletreee Hotel.  I have reserved a block of rooms for everyone checking in the 7th and departing the 8th.   I also want to inform you that the Enron Corp. Holiday Party will be held on Saturday, December 9 here in Houston which will give those of you travelling in the opportunity to attend, if you wish. Questions you might have regarding the party. 1.  Are spouses invited? (? for employees outside of Houston)  Yes, but at the employee's expense (ie:airfare). 2. Will Enron pay for the extra 2 nights at the hotel?  Yes, if you can demonstrate that, even with the additional 2 nights stay, plus your airfare, it will still be cheaper than a flight leaving the evening of the 8th.   A lot of times airfare will be much cheaper with a weekend stayover. Example: (a)  Round trip airfare (returning 12/8/00)  = $800.00 (airfare only) Example: (b) Two additional nights at  hotel =     $500.00 (airfare w/a weekend stay) $218.00 (hotel 2/additional nights) Total = $718.00 3. Will Enron pay for additional meals for the weekend?  No.  Meals will be on your own. If you are interested in staying the weekend, please let me know.  There are individuals that need to be contacted with this information. Please mark your calendars and call me if you have any questions. Thanks, gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate the attached briefs to the Government Affairs group as an FYI.  These are Enron's briefs filed in the Supreme Court case regarding FERC's Order No. 888 open access proceeding. Thanks Sarah 
The next scheduled RCR call will take place as follows: 
==================================================== 
There are several of you who have not responded to this e:mail.  Please let me know of your plans to attend (today) as well as, let me know by Friday, May 4 which activity you choose. gngr 713-853-7751 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, please send this cleaned-up version of the Reason Institute's paper on Price Caps to everyone in Govt. Affairs.  Thanks! 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
Well, the time has arrived for me to let you know what is in store for everyone at the next Government Affairs department meeting on Thursday, June 14.  The meeting will take place at: The Omni Interlocken 500 Interlocken Blvd. Broomfield, Colorado  80021 Phone# 303-438-6600 Fax# 303-464-3252 Check-in time  3:00 p.m. Check-out time  12:00 p.m. (Noon) The  Government Affairs meeting will take place on Thursday, June 14 and will begin at 8:00 am and will conclude by 11:30 am.  I have arranged for box lunches to be served after the meeting.   After the meeting, we will have the remainder of the day for some fun activities, along with a buffet dinner served that evening to complete the day (on-site dinner location TBD). Block of Rooms - A block of rooms have been reserved for Government Affairs. I will be turning in a rooming list to the hotel next week so, I  would like to know by Friday, April 27 your plans to attend the meeting. Shuttle Service -  See attachment for shuttle times.  Please note, a return reservation from the hotel to the airport is required.  Please contact the Concierge to arrange for shuttle service. Colorado Weather - For the month of June, you can expect the following: High's - 80.............Low's - 52 Flights from Houston - I have checked with TAP for roundtrip flights from Houston - Denver, Denver - Houston and an exceptionally great (non-refundable) fare of $190.94 is available.  However, fares are not guaranteed until actually booked.   Let's book early!!!!! The activities to choose from are as follows:  Please let me know by May 4 your choice of activity!!!!!! Whitewater Rafting - A bus will leave the Omni Interlocken Resort at 2:00pm to head for an afternoon of exciting adventure on Colorado's Clear Creek. The Arkansas River is one of the most popular whitewater adventures anywhere, combining spectacular scenery and action packed rapids.  Teamwork is the name of the game as your team paddles down these tumbling cascades.  Continuous class III and IV rapids will thrill guests throughout the run. Drop over Nomad, surge through the Phoenix Holes and take on the class IV climax, the Outer Limits.  Good physical condition and the ability to swim are recommended.  The group will have three thrilling hours on the river and will return to the Omni by 6:15pm. Chautauqua Park Hiking Adventure - One of the most popular access points for mountain hiking trails in Boulder is Chautauqua Park. The focal point is the 100-year-old dining hall.  The Colorado Chautauqua is one of only four of the original Chautauquas still operating in America, as opposed to when thousands dotted the nation and culturally enriched rural people in the early 1900s. The tour includes: transportation, professional guide service, two hours of guided hiking - total time for excursion is 4 hours. (Dress code: Shorts or hiking attire, appropriate footwear, sunglasses, sunscreen and hats). Departure time and return will be relayed at a later date. Spa Services -  The Spa at Omni Interlocken Resort offers a number of spa services (massages, facial & skin care treatments, body treatments or nail services, to name a few).  If you are interested in this as an activity, please let me know and I will fax a detailed list of their services.  You will need to call the spa and schedule your own appointment if this is the activity you choose. Golf -  For the golf enthusiasts, an afternoon of golf at the Omni Interlocken 27-hole championship golf course which stretches out over 300 acres of verdant fairways is another activity to select from.  Spectacular panoramic views from three 9-hole courses, which feature more than 400 feet in elevation changes.  If this is the activity of choice please respond via e:mail and I will add you to the list.  The game of choice will be ""best ball"" play. Biking -  Scenic bike paths are located near the hotel for those with interest.  If this is your choice of activity, please let me know and I will reserve a bike and map for you enjoyment. After reviewing the choices above, please select an activity you prefer to take part in.  Due to the fact that our group is so large, (which makes it more difficult to coordinate activities) once you select an activity, we ask that you not change your selection.  So, please talk to your colleagues ahead of time before making your choice. Thanks and don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. Gngr - SuperShuttle.doc 
Mike, Rick has scheduled this meeting for Monday, April 23 at 9:00 a.m. CDT.   Can you come to the 47th floor for this meeting?  If so, once you get here we can call Jeff D. from the room. Jeff, let me know which number will be best to reach you at at 7:00 a.m. PDT. Thanks 
The dates for the next Government Affairs meeting have been finalized. Please mark your calendars with the dates below. 
Yes sir, the call will take place at 4:30 PM (CDT) and the number is 1-800-283-1805.  (just a reminder, this call now takes place on Monday's & Thursday's (only)). gngr 
In an effort to control costs for travel expenses, as Jeff Skilling suggested in his floor meeting last week,  Rick would like for everyone to purchase tickets from the Travel Agency in the Park (TAP), which is the preferred travel agent for Enron.  The savings that Enron receives from using TAP is insurmountable.  See below, a list of the contracts Enron has negotiated with some of the airlines.  Whenever possible, plan to purchase tickets at least 3-7 days in advance.  Often the pre-purchase savings outweighs the potential switching fee. The travel agency is also able to give you a better price for hotel reservations through the Hickory rate, which is cheaper then the corporate rate.  TAP's phone number is 713-650-8080 (web address: http://www.travelpark.com) AIRLINE CONTRACTS America West  15% American 28% Continental 17%....25% full business and coach fares US50 to/from Europe Delta 5-28% Northwest/KLM 20 - 30% domestic....25% international TWA 21% - 54% domestic and Houston-Toronto only United 28% US Airways 30% British Air 15 - 35% Also, if at any time you are interested in having your spouse travel with you on a business trip, at the company's expense,  it is necessary for you to have spousal approval.  This approval is needed in advance of the trip, by your immediate supervisor and Rick Shapiro.  Below you will find an attached spousal approval form. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please make note of the new schedule for the Campaign Leadership Call: Call will now take place on Monday's & Thursday's @ 4:30 PM (CDT).  The next call is scheduled for Thursday, April 5. Don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Please make note of the change in time of the  ""Campaign Leadership Call"" . Beginning Tuesday, March 27, 2001 the call will take place daily at 4:30pm CST instead of 11:30am CST.  The dial in number and location for this call will remain the same. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beginning Monday, March 26, 2001 there will be a daily ""Campaign Leadership Call"".  This conference call was referenced in a memo sent via e:mail by Rick this afternoon, Friday, March 23.  Please remember to mark your calendars accordingly. 
Jeff, Here is the int'l dial # for this call: 703-736-7385 Also, Rick knows you are on vacation this week (no charge!) gngr 713-853-7751 Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/28/2001 09:04 PM 
Rick: My apologies.  The family events here in Mexico have conflicted with the calls.  But I will be on the call tomorrow.  (Anything to save $25!) One thing. I'm not sure that I can dial into an 800 number here in Mexico. Ginger:  Could I possibly call you at 4:30 and have you conference me in to the 800 number? Best, Jeff Ginger Dernehl 03/28/2001 11:46 AM 
Message from Rick: The Campaign Leadership Call, which takes place daily at 4:30pm CST, is ""Mandatory"".  If you are unable to attend, it will be necessary for you to have someone participate on the call in your behalf.  Please notify Rick or myself,  if you are unable to participate and let us know who will be participating for you.  A fine of $25.00 will be assessed to those who do not participate or have someone participate for them.  The monies collected will go to a charity of the group's choice. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Message from Rick: The Campaign Leadership Call, which takes place daily at 4:30pm CST, is ""Mandatory"".  If you are unable to attend, it will be necessary for you to have someone participate on the call in your behalf.  Please notify Rick or myself,  if you are unable to participate and let us know who will be participating for you.  A fine of $25.00 will be assessed to those who do not participate or have someone participate for them.  The monies collected will go to a charity of the group's choice. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 
Please make note of the change in time of the  ""Campaign Leadership Call"" . Beginning Tuesday, March 27, 2001 the call will take place daily at 4:30pm CST instead of 11:30am CST.  The dial in number and location for this call will remain the same. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beginning Monday, March 26, 2001 there will be a daily ""Campaign Leadership Call"".  This conference call was referenced in a memo sent via e:mail by Rick this afternoon, Friday, March 23.  Please remember to mark your calendars accordingly. 
Beginning Monday, March 26, 2001 there will be a daily ""Campaign Leadership Call"".  This conference call was referenced in a memo sent via e:mail by Rick this afternoon, Friday, March 23.  Please remember to mark your calendars accordingly. 
Please read the attached memo. 
The above referenced call has been scheduled as follows, please mark your calendars: 
Rick would like to schedule a 90 minute conference call regarding 
gngr 
Janel Guerrero 03/20/2001 08:48 PM 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
The dept. conf. call scheduled for Friday, March 23 at 10:30am (CST) has been cancelled. gngr 
Rick would like to schedule a 90 minute conference call regarding 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Sydni Marie Robinson was born on 3/18/01 at 12:39 p.m.  She weighed 8 pounds and 7 ounces and was 20 inches long. Baby and mother are doing great.  Father sounds exhausted. Ginger, I didn't know if you wanted to send this out to the group. Geriann Warner GA - The Americans Tel: 713-853-5036 Fax: 713-853-7297 
The next RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 19 at 12:00 PM  CST.  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805. gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The FT/RDI   March  14  California Conference  call discussed the plight of California utilities and customers.  California  is  a state with IOUs on the verge of bankruptcy, that  wants  to  buy up the utilities power grid  assets that is now seeing, after more  than a  year of  constant  natural gas  price hikes,  gas prices starting to decrease.  There  are 3 ways for California  to get out of  this electricty supply bind  and ease off its power price spikes:  add generation over capacity;  have retail users   reduce peak use consumption and find methods  to  use  cheaper storage of power.  The latter is not  available and the first will  eventually  be  available  medium  term.  Thus  dynamic pricing programs  could help  the retail  power decrease  strategy.  The  California  crisis is indirectly  causing several other states  to stall their  deregulation progress, namely  Oklahoma, Arkansas, Nevada and Missouri. Fifty  percent  of US power load is used by  1 percent  of customers--the industrials. In California, the industrials  are only  one-third of  one percent  of customers  and they use 25 percent  of  the  electricity in the  state.  Going  to this industrial market  and using technoogy and pricing to   conserve  electricity  use would go a long way towards reducing peak demand use.   RDI  believes the gas infrastructure in the US is  there for 100  GW of new gas power plants, but many local hookups must be done to meet  super peak days on a localized basis.  California  is racing   to get  5 or  6 peakers  by this summer yet there may not be enough gas this summer to fill their  needs.  Plans  to add  capacity inside  the state   to receive  gas at the border are lagging  the plans of   interstates  to  add capacity. Summer peak use may  be just  as difficult to meet in the US  as winter peaks  have been.  As new merchant plants come online on a  regional  basis differentials will change  a lot.   But most pressure on prices medium term will be downward, and the  items to watch   is  where/when the  new supplies  show up and  where the new niche interconnects   get  built.   In California  the  Gov. does not want  to  let power prices  go above current price  caps  and  this  will be hard for him to do  and  still give price  signals  that  will  take off demand at the  peak of the market.  Average electricity demand  growth annually  in California  has  been about  3 percent per year  since   1998 but   less  than 1 percent of new capacity  has been added.  In concluding remarks, RDI's  John Egan noted  due to the expected  crush of  changes, market vigilence   will be critical  for the  successful  participants in the gas and power markets 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - please forward this to all of GA.  Thanks. This is a request for help from my colleagues in GA.  I am preparing Enron's comments to the Federal Trade Commission concerning the results of different ""regulatory approaches"" by states implementing retail electric competition programs or legislation.  The FTC has invited comments on a number of specific issues, but their goal is to ""examine various state retail competition programs and describe those features that have resulted in 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
FYI 
Below is the information on the conference call planned by Rick Shapiro for tomorrow.. 
Please read this e:mail.  Important detailed information provided. Hi everyone: I  want to follow-up with each of you on some details for the upcoming Government Affairs-The Americas meeting on Friday, March 9.  First thing, your contacts for this upcoming meeting will be Linda Noske (x36082)  & Geriann Warner (x35036).  After Tuesday, February 27, I will be out of the office and unavailable until Monday, March 12. (Aloha!) The meeting will take place at the Woodlands Resort in the ""Lakeside Room"" on Friday, March 9.  A continental breakfast will be available at 7:30am with the meeting beginning promptly at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm (see attached agenda). The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm (see attached map) For those of you who will be staying overnight, as an overnight guest at The Woodlands Resort, you are entitled to dinner the evening of March 8th and breakfast the next morning at the Woodlands Dining Room.   You must let the server know that your meal should be charged to the Enron master account. This service is part of the meeting package that Enron has agreed to.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call Linda or Geriann. The Woodlands Resort provides transportation to and from the airport. Assistants/Coordinators, please schedule any transportation with the resort directly, their number is 281-364-6256.  PARKING: Valet parking is not available, you will need to park in a parking lot on site. ATTIRE:  Friday Casual Below, you will find a list of names with date of arrival/departure for those needing overnight accommodations.  Please check this list for accuracy and get back with me ASAP if changes are needed. gngr 
I am very pleased to announce the following promotions that became effective February 1, 2001. Steve Montovano - Sr. Director to Vice President: Steve, as regional head for the Eastern Seaboard area, has developed a very effective team that has brought a very commercially focused approach to their efforts in that region. Steve and his team have developed a model approach to transactional support and origination that has made them an integral part of the commercial teams that work in his region. Steve's efforts have been recognized by all, particularly his commercial counterparts in the region. Jeff Dasovich - Director to Sr. Director: As part of the Western States team, Jeff has helped to coordinate Enron's actions in response to California's energy crisis.  Throughout this crisis he has worked closely with Enron Energy Services, Enron North America and senior management of the company in a way that fully reflects Enron's core values.  He has provided and continues to provide leadership on complex issues involving business and litigation risk.  Jeff has also provided tremendous value to the business units on a number of transactions arising from the crisis. Lisa Yoho - Director to Sr. Director: Lisa has been a valuable member of the Eastern Seaboard team and , more recently has assumed responsibility for Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks. Lisa has been an integral team member in trying to establish a market for secondary rail transportation capacity and in helping to launch the company's efforts into  the agricultural commodity business. In  these and many other efforts in which Lisa has been involved, Lisa has consistently demonstrated substantive leadership and excellence. Donna Fulton - Manager to Director:  Donna joined Governmental Affairs this past summer, and has made excellent contributions to our RTO efforts, the sale of Portland General, and various commercial endeavors ranging from gas matters to licensing of a hydroelectric project in California.  Her extensive experience before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has proven invaluable to the Office. Lara Leibman - Manager to Director:   Lara consistently has produced very high quality work across a number of industries and issues.  Most recently, she has developed both regulatory and technical knowledge on issues related to developing a secondary market for wireless spectrum.  This has enabled her to provide a valuable leadership role while working closely with her commercial counterparts in this and other areas. Charles Yeung - Manger to Director:  Charles has been a key player in promoting changes to North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) operating policies that affect the East Trading Desk.  His understanding of the NERC policies and leadership role in NERC committees and working groups has been essential to successfully advocating meeting the needs of Enron. Allison Navin -  Legislative Coordinator to Manager.  Allison has been responsible for the research and tracking of key issues and legislation in the Washington, DC office as well as coordinating briefing and informational materials and has done an outstanding job  in the execution of all of her resposibilities.  In her new role, Allison will be an integral member of the federal advocacy team, working on a number of legislative and regulatory issues that will include broadband and e-commerce. Ginger Dernehl - Executive Secretary to Administrative Coordinator:   Ginger has done an outstanding job in supporting and coordinating efforts for the Government Affairs-The Americas group for the past 4 years.  Her dedication and hard work have resulted in her success and her promotion to Administrative Coordinator. A special personal note on Ginger. Ginger, in my mind, exemplifies and embodies the best of  Enron's vision and values: She works hard, produces outstanding results for the group, posesses an attitude that is optimistic and fun-loving, and still does an extraordinary job of balancing the personal and professional. Ginger, to put it succinctly, is a treasure and I am very pleased and proud to recognize her accomplishments. Joseph Alamo - Administrative Assistant II to Sr. Administrative Assistant: Joseph has been with San Francisco office for 1 1/2  years, during which time he has supported as many as five members of the Government Affairs teams. Joseph is uniformly recognized for his willingness to take on difficult tasks and his dedication to the company's efforts.  We thank Joseph for his work on behalf of Government Affairs and congratulate him on his promotion. Please join me in congratulating each of these individuals that have all made significant contributions to this company's success. I have also attached an updated organizational chart. 
There has been a change in the time of above referenced call.  Please make note of this and place on your calendars. 
Rick Shapiro has scheduled a daily conference call for the above listed individuals to discuss the clarity of Enron's message and purpose.  This call will take place every week day at 10:00am CST, beginning Tuesday, February 20th.  Please see below for details: 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
Joan Stransky 02/16/2001 02:16 PM 
Please see attached 3-page memo from Margaret Carson. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please send to entire group. 
In case you guys missed this..... 
I thought that you would appreciate this. - California+power.jpg 
Rick Shapiro has scheduled a daily conference call for the above listed individuals to discuss the clarity of Enron's message and purpose.  This call will take place every week day at 10:00am CST, beginning Tuesday, February 20th.  Please see below for details: 
The ""California Crisis"" daily conference call has been changed to a weekly call beginning next week, February 19.  The call will now take place every Monday at 10:30am CST w/ an exception of this Monday, February 19.  Since this is a holiday, the call will take place on Tuesday, February 20 at 10:30am CST.  The same dial in number will apply for the weekly call (please see below for dial information). Updated information on California  will be sent via e:mail when available. Also,  if there is someone who needs to get this information that is not on this address list, please make sure you forward this message to them. If you have any questions please feel free to call. Thanks gngr 713-853-7751 Richard Shapiro Sent by: Ginger Dernehl 01/11/2001 03:09 PM 
A  conference call, regarding the above subject, has been scheduled daily to provide a single place and time to review what has occurred over the last 24 hours regarding the California crisis and what lies ahead.  The conf. call information will be as follows: 
Rick would like to hold a weekly call re: California every Friday from 4:00pm - 5:00pm CST w/the above listed individuals.  The dial in number will be 1-800-283-1805 and the call will start on Friday, February 23. Thanks and please mark your calendars accordingly. gngr 
Rick's pager is temporarily out of service.  We hope to have it working by early afternoon.  If you need to reach him urgently, please call him on his cell phone at 281-831-3749. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Below, please find the agenda for the ""California Crisis Meeting"" tomorrow, Friday, February 16. gngr 713-853-7751 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to entire California distribution list. Thanks. 
Rick has scheduled a  meeting for Thursday, February 15 to discuss the national campaign around California.  The meeting will take place in Houston, TX. and at the moment, I am in the process of locating a meeting space, but I wanted each of you to be aware of this meeting so you could block your calendar.  The meeting will begin at 11:30am (CST) and conclude by 3:30pm (CST).  If for any reason you are unable to attend this meeting, please inform Rick via e:mail or v:mail. I will keep everyone apprised of the meeting location and please feel free to call me if you have any questions. I would also like to request confirmation of your attendance and if overnight accommodations are needed, please let me know that as well. gngr 
Woodlands, here we come again!!!!  The next Government Affairs-The Americas meeting is scheduled for Friday, March 9 at 8:00am and should conclude by 5:00pm.  For those staying overnight, I have a block of rooms reserved and I will be putting a rooming list together for the conference center.  Please do not call the conference center directly for reservations.  I will need to know by Wednesday, February 7 of your plans to attend this meeting and if you will require overnight accommodations (pls indicate # of nights needed). The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport on a scheduled basis from 6:00am - 10:00pm at a cost of $32.00 per person, per trip.  Reservations must be made a minimum of 24 hours in advance for both arrivals and departures.  If you have an interest in using this service, please call the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. The agenda for the meeting is still a work in progress and I will forward it to everyone once it is finalized. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions. gngr 
John Neslage@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 02/02/2001 11:20 AM 
Ginger: Could you please forward this to the participants of the daily California Conference call? Thanks John 
Richard Shapiro 02/02/2001 10:00 AM 
in Nov & Dec Please distribute to entire group. 
in Nov & Dec Good News.  FERC issued three reports yesterday:  a Response of the Staff of the FERC to Questions Posed at December 20, 2000 Western Governors Association Denver Meeting; a Staff Report to the FERC on Northwest Power Markets in Nov. and Dec. 2000; and a Report on Plant Outages in the State of California.  All three reports can be downloaded from FERC's page on bulk power markets, found at http://www.ferc.fed.us/electric/bulkpower.htm. From a quick scan of the pricing and outage reports, the results are very favorable.  FERC found no evidence that plants were down for other than maintenance or emissions problems.  The pricing report found that prices in the NW during the two months tracked the increased demand and supply shortfall. 
in Nov & Dec 
in Nov & Dec Please distribute to entire group. 
in Nov & Dec Good News.  FERC issued three reports yesterday:  a Response of the Staff of the FERC to Questions Posed at December 20, 2000 Western Governors Association Denver Meeting; a Staff Report to the FERC on Northwest Power Markets in Nov. and Dec. 2000; and a Report on Plant Outages in the State of California.  All three reports can be downloaded from FERC's page on bulk power markets, found at http://www.ferc.fed.us/electric/bulkpower.htm. From a quick scan of the pricing and outage reports, the results are very favorable.  FERC found no evidence that plants were down for other than maintenance or emissions problems.  The pricing report found that prices in the NW during the two months tracked the increased demand and supply shortfall. 
The daily California Crisis call is being rescheduled for tomorrow only!  See details below: (bolded items indicate a change) 
There will be a RCR review call on Monday, January 29 at 12:00pm cst.  The number to call at 12:00 (noon) is 1-800-283-1805.. Thanks and call if you have any questions. gngr 
The California daily conference call will continue to take place through the last week in February.  The time,  number, passcode and location listed below will remain the same. Thanks and feel free to call if you have any questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
My apologies in getting this information to everyone so late, but some of the dates are still a work in progress.  Please see below: Government Affairs - The Americas Department Meeting Dates for Year 2001 
Because of the nature of the issues (particularly California) facing the company at this time, I would respectfully request that all outside speaking engagements be submitted to me for review and approval. 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Ken Lay, Steve Kean, Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes will be traveling to California to attend a meeting to discuss California energy issues.  This meeting will be taking place on Saturday, January 13 at 12:30 PST.  A conference call will take place on Sunday, January 14 to review what was discussed in the meeting.  The conf. call information will be as follows: 
Carmen Perez@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 01/12/2001 02:17 PM 
Ginger- Flowers have been ordered for Steve's son - David W. Walton, on behalf of the group.  As I mentioned before, Steve's son was killed this Monday in an unfortunate trucking accident.  The funeral will be this coming Monday at the following address: Rosson Brothers Mortuary 295 No. Main Bountiful, Utah  84010 Tel. 801/295-5505 Carmen Perez International Government Affairs 
A  conference call, regarding the above subject, has been scheduled daily to provide a single place and time to review what has occurred over the last 24 hours regarding the California crisis and what lies ahead.  The conf. call information will be as follows: 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Please see the v:mail message below from Rick Shapiro that was transcribed = by=20 Lora Sullivan. 
Rick Shapiro   Voicemail 1:30 AM 1/10/01 =20 Please pass this message on to Hartsoe and others as well.  Meeting went=20 until 12:15 PM.  He=01,s not going into details now.   During the course of= the=20 day there were several meetings and a proposal.  There was sort of an=20 agreement =01) I wouldn=01,t say it was a conceptual agreement that was rea= ched=20 among the parties that is going to be released by Treasury today.  I=01,m n= ot=20 sure much will come of it.  It=01,s going to create some motion.  I talked = to=20 Sue Mara.  Sue will be coming over to the office and you=01,ll need someone= else=20 to go with her because of the fact there are two working groups instead of= =20 one.  I=01,m going to read to you the statement: The Governor of CA and a bipartisan leadership of the state legislature met= =20 with major generators including qualifying facilities, marketers, utility= =20 regulators and federal officials to discuss the electricity situation in CA= . =20 Recognizing the importance of the issue as laid out in the Governor=01,s St= ate=20 of the State speech last evening, the partipants agreed for the need for=20 cooperation to maintain stability and avoid bankruptcy for the utilities an= d=20 assure the long term regulation of market conditions.  Crucial elements of= =20 the solution include: =20 ? The development of approaches to promote long-term purchases of electrici= ty=20 possibily by States and generators at an attractive fixed rate - an=20 option-type of an idea perhaps using some type of existing state agency lik= e=20 DWR - Dept. of Water and Resources to basically create the credit and=20 insulation for suppliers from the utilities. ? The willingness for generators, qualifying facilities and markets to=20 provide on the short-term basis for current amounts owed by PGE and Edison = in=20 the context of the framework of a long-term solution ? The need to find satisfactory approaches with respect to the obligation= =20 accumulation of the utilitles for the purchase of power consistent with=20 contractual obligations and which are in the public interest. ? Cooperation to better match supply and demand in the short and long-term. ? Review of the existing qualifying facilities payments to directors. The parties ackknoweldge the problem must be addresed while taking into=20 account the regional market.  Further working groups will be convened on=20 Wednesday, and there will be two working groups to address to address=20 technical details.  Principals will reconvene this weekend.  One working=20 group will deal with long-term auction and QF issues.  The first and the la= st=20 bullets and the second and the third bullets which have to do more with the= =20 arrearages, the debt and the obligations that have been accumulated for the= =20 purchase of the power is the second  working group. =20 I think I=01,ve read it all.  The working groups (see first and last bullet= s)=20 Sue is best equipped to handle.  If we need to send another person over wit= h=20 Sue to sit on the second working group that deals with the unrecovered and= =20 unpaid obligations of the utilites.  Sarah Novosel should do that. =20 
Rick would like to hold a conference call tomorrow to update everyone on the meeting he attended w/Ken Lay at the U.S. Treasury Dept.  The call will take place as follows: 
The RCR meeting scheduled for today is being rescheduled to the following: 
The next RCR meeting will take place on Tuesday, January 9  as follows: 
A conf. call has been scheduled to discuss Governor Gray Davis' State of the State address.  The call will take place as follows: 
The next RCR meeting will take place on Tuesday, January 9  as follows: 
Margaret Carson 01/04/2001 11:30 AM 
Fyi    It is   easier  to  read after detaching  and click on  the PDF 
Just FYI. Assistants:  Please make note of the new rate for next year! gngr 713-853-7751 
The IRS has announced that the standard mileage rate for use of a personal automobile for business will be 34 1/2 cents per mile starting January 1, 2001.  Enron's policy is to follow IRS guidelines, so use this rate for all 
Below is a list of dates for the monthly (Friday)  department conference calls for the year 2001.  Please mark your calendars accordingly. Dates:   Friday, January 26 Friday, February 23 Friday, March 23 Friday, April 27 Friday, May 25 Friday, June 22 Friday, July 20 Friday, August 17 Friday, September 14 Friday, October 12 Friday, November 16 Friday, December 14 Time:   10:30am CST Number:  1-800-283-1805 (domestic #) Rick is listed as the host for these calls! 703-736-7385 (int'l #) Location:  EB4701 (for those in Houston) Thanks and please call if you have any questions. HAPPY NEW YEAR TO ALL!!!!!!!! gngr 
Please see the attached, from Sue Nord, and respond by Friday, September 29. Ginger Dernehl Government Affairs-The Americas 713-853-7751 
As Rick mentioned at the staff meeting in DC, we are compiling a list of suggested names for Presidential appointments under either a Bush or a Gore administration.  Please forward your suggestions, along with a sentence or two explaining why you are recommending an individual, no later than Friday, September 29.  Also, if there are potential candidates about whom we should be concerned, please forward that information. The attached documents describe the current make-up of various federal commissions, including the party affiliation and term dates for current members.   Cabinet and agency appointments are listed as well. Please send your recommendations directly to Ginger, either in hard copy or electronically.  Thanks in advance for your input. 
Electricity i 
Richard Shapiro 12/20/2000 03:14 PM 
Electricity i Ginger-Please forward to entire group. 
A conf. call has been scheduled, by Jim,  for the above subject as follows: 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Lisa - Security has confirmed your access to the system, please try to get into it again.  If if doesn't work right away, follow the steps below to re-load the icons.  If you still have problems after that, please let me know and we'll loop in the developer to find out what's going on. Thanks! 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
Please see attached. 
Please see note from Margaret Carson below and respond to her with questions. gngr 713-853-7751 
Can you  kindly  distribute  this report to your  Govt  Affairs distribution list.  If  anyone  would like to get a user name and password  to  search the Cambridge  Energy reports just let me know.  Thanks, Margaret Carson 
CERA Alert: Dcember 13, 2000 Title: California on the Brink CERA Knowledge Areas: Western Energy, N. American Power, N. American Gas CALIFORNIA ON THE BRINK The California Stalemate California moved closer to the brink of an outage today as concerns over credit-worthiness of buyers brought the possibility that generators would avoid selling to the California market. While numerous factors have contributed to the high cost of power incurred by California's utilities, the root cause of the current crisis is a lack of new generation. The current credit crisis and its threat to supplies could spark state action to address the situation. The collective efforts of all market participants should be focused on increasing generation capacity as quickly as possible. Western power prices have skyrocketed well beyond the record levels set this summer. Perhaps because frozen rates insulate the majority of California consumers and companies from tangible effects of the market crisis, regulators have been able to postpone meaningful market reforms and significant rate increases. The California Public Utilities Commission denied the requests of Pacific Gas & Electric and Southern California Edison to end their rate freezes, forcing these utilities at least temporarily to finance the costs of higher wholesale energy. This has created an unsustainable accumulation of costs and a loss of faith in the California market. The current credit crisis and the potential for blackouts may become the galvanizing events that provide state regulators with a public mandate to address the underlying structural problems in the industry. However, there is no guarantee that these regulatory actions will expedite an effective solution for customers and the industry as a whole. Wholesale and retail markets that emerge from regulatory intervention are likely to remain muddled. In the necessarily political process that will follow, it is possible that-as has largely been the case so far-the steps taken will fail to move the California power market toward a more enduring solution and will instead continue to mask the underlying structural flaws. In the six months since California's supply shortfall began plaguing Western markets, regulators have done little to address the underlying problem. Rather than addressing the cause of the supply shortage-establishing a market environment that encourages timely additions of new generating capacity and demand side responses-efforts are instead directed at trying to lay blame for the crisis and lessen the immediate financial impact on customers. Indeed, several actions taken thus far have served more to compound the problem by discouraging new power plant additions. These include price caps, repeated changes to market rules, attempts to seize generator profits, and a challenging siting and permitting process. Medicine Worse than the Illness Several years of electricity demand growth and low prices in California were accompanied by very few additions to the supply base. Regulators did not pay adequate attention to the looming supply shortfall. The void of consensus over the cause of the current crisis has instead been replaced by a series of bandaid remedies that address the symptoms, but not the cause, of California's electric market woes.* * Challenging siting and permitting. Despite state action to better coordinate the siting and permitting process for new power plants, power plant developers still face high hurdles. Local community opposition alone has struck down some key proposed facilities. * Price caps discourage investment. State and federal proposals to cap prices limit the attractiveness of the California wholesale power market, especially for developers who have the option of channeling scarce capital and equipment to more stable or more attractive markets outside the state. * Repeated rule changes. Frequent rule changes in the ISO markets (including the price caps) confound attempts by developers to estimate profits from new plant development. * Calls for refunds. Despite reports by the Power Exchange, the ISO, and the FERC that no pattern of abuse could be found from their examination of the California markets, state officials continue to accuse power providers of gaming the market. Calls by state officials for refunds of generator profits are a threat to new plant development. * Facility inspections. Recent inspections of power plants by state officials to verify that operators are honestly reporting the operational status of their generating units accentuates the atmosphere of mistrust. CERA's recent analysis suggests that merchant plant developers in the West are not guaranteed? to make a profit. Prospects of new plant profitability are affected by the timing and quantity of new plants, decommissioning of older units, demand growth, and numerous other difficult-to-forecast factors. California's regulatory actions only further cloud the assessment of financial viability and degrade the political environment for developers considering entering the state. Despite efforts by the California ISO to stimulate new capacity additions in the state with a special, limited-term capacity payment, CERA estimates that demand growth will continue to outstrip supply additions in the West in 2001. In addition, the existing siting and permitting process will prevent a sufficient quantity of capacity from entering the market until 2003 at the earliest. Therefore, three years remain before a sufficient quantity of capacity enters service to significantly dampen prices and decrease the risk of an outage. The Road to Recovery There are a number of actions that can be taken to help relieve the capacity shortfall: * Encourage new build. Supply must be part of the answer. This requires a series of steps that can help facilitate new supply build. While in principal some have been taken, such as new fast track approval, the success of these actions can only be measured by the build itself. For now, there is still not enough new supply coming on until 2003 to relieve supply tightness.? * Stabilize investment climate. Utilities must have assurance that they will ultimately be allowed to recover market costs for power. This provides the credit worthiness needed by sellers to produce energy and to stimulate new build. * Move toward more balanced utility supply portfolios. One of the reasons the pressure on customers has been so intense in California has been the absence (and even discouragement) of diverse supply portfolios among the utilities in the state-particularly for residential and small commercial customers. With the market at a peak, however, now is in one sense a sub-optimal time to move toward term contracting. Yet these contracts provide the foundation for a series of actions-including new supply build and demand side investments. If they end up above market, they will at least have achieved the desired effect of knocking down prices, a fact which by itself should provide sufficient justification for recovering the cost of these commitments. * Encourage market mechanisms that elicit a demand response. Although originally a feature of California's market design, most consumers are insulated from price spikes through capped or frozen retail rates. Exposing customers to at least some of the market price signals would encourage a demand response. * Encourage market mechanisms that dampen the ""Boom Bust"" characteristic of the market. Whether in the form of a capacity payment, a reserve requirement, or a minimum term portfolio requirement, the California power market needs to move to a structure that encourages investment in new capacity when the market is in balance rather than waiting for a shortage and price shock to elicit new investment. Such a structure can help dampen (but not eliminate) future price volatility. * Avoid continuously tinkering with the market. While the market does need to be restructured as described above, it also needs to be stable and reliable to encourage the development of new supply as well as a robust long-term contractual market for power in California. Continually tinkering with the market structure-such as the three times the price cap has been shifted since July-only serves to undermine confidence in the market. California needs to do its best to develop a long-term solution and then let the market run its course. * Allow for greater environmental flexibility. The state should explore a more balanced solution to emissions restrictions in the face of a supply shortfall that has been exacerbated by generators that cannot operate due to emissions restrictions. * Free PURPA power plants to generate. Relief should be granted to PURPA power plants that are operational, but are restricted by contract from operating to generate only power. **end** This CERA Alert will be available in PDF format within 24 hours. ********************************************************************** This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
FYI Ginger Dernehl Government Affairs-The Americas 713-853-7751 
Tom Hoatson has a new cell phone number now.  He asked that you let the group know. #973-951-1770 Also, as you can see I finally have email now.  If you could replace Sharon Eley's email address with mine that would be appreciated.  Everything else is the same; location, phone number, extension, etc.  Again, I am the new Admin Asst. directly reporting to Frank Rishe but also taking care of Tom Hoatson and Dan Staines.  Thank you! 
This is a great time to be at Enron. The challenges and opportunities at=20 Enron seem to be expanding with every passing day.  This presents enormous= =20 challenges for Government Affairs as a group and for each of us=20 individually.  As we discussed at the staff meeting last month, this requir= es=20 us to constantly reevaluate our priorities, our methods of getting things= =20 done, and whether our organization is properly structured to meet the needs= =20 of the entire company.  While we have done an outstanding job as a group=20 within our current structure, changes are necessary at this time. The primary change in the organizational structure is to complete the=20 assignments for and reinforce the leadership roles of the individuals withi= n=20 the group who have primary responsibility for setting the Government Affair= s=20 strategy and agenda for the respective Enron operating companies.  The belo= w=20 mentioned individuals will have the following responsibilities: 1. Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets:  Jim Steffes 2. The Enron Energy Services Group of Companies:  Harry Kingerski 3. Enron Broadband Services:  Sue Nord 4. Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks:  Lisa Yoho 5. Enron South America:  Jose Bestard 6. Federal Government Affairs:  Linda Robertson With the impending retirement on March 31, 2001 of Joe Hillings, I am pleas= ed=20 to announce that Linda Robertson will be joining the office on November 6,= =20 2000, as a Vice President who will immediately assume responsibility for=20 leading the Federal Government Affairs group in our Washington office.  Lin= da=20 was a Congressional staffer and partner/principal in two Washington law fir= ms=20 prior to spending the last eight years with the U.S. Department of Treasury= ,=20 the last five as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs and Public=20 Liaison, for Secretaries Rubin & Summers.  Linda brings a terrific=20 background, both in energy and financial services, and is a welcome additio= n=20 to our team.  In order to more effectively integrate the Government Affairs= =20 groups and strategy in Washington, the Federal Regulatory Affairs group und= er=20 Joe Hartsoe=01,s direction will also report to Linda.  Joe Hartsoe will als= o=20 retain primary responsibility for NERC activities, although Charles Yeung a= nd=20 Dick Ingersoll will have a dotted line reporting relationship to Jim Steffe= s=20 in his capacity of directing our activities for ENA.  Ray Alvarez will be= =20 transferring from his current role with Transredes in Bolivia during the 1s= t=20 quarter of 2001 and will join the Federal Regulatory Affairs group, reporti= ng=20 to Joe Hartsoe. On a personal note, I would like to acknowledge the significant contributio= ns=20 that Joe Hillings has made to this company in his eighteen years of service= . =20 Joe=01,s work ethic, intellect, and integrity have established Enron as a= =20 company that is respected throughout Washington.  I will have more to say= =20 about this as Joe=01,s retirement draws closer, but I look to him to be a v= ital=20 part of the leadership transition in our Washington office that will occur= =20 over the next days and weeks. I will be relying heavily on the above-identified six individuals to ensure= =20 that Government Affairs is firmly embedded within each of our operating=20 companies; that we as a group thoroughly understand their current business= =20 strategies as well as new directions they may be taking in the future; and,= =20 most importantly, to thoroughly understand how our organization can=20 contribute and add value to each of these companies on a continuing basis. = =20 Communicating that understanding on a regular basis to the rest of the=20 Government Affairs organization and developing a Government Affairs wide=20 execution strategy will be a key objective for each of these individuals. In order to ensure the success of these individuals and the Government=20 Affairs organization; the following changes are being made. In addition to his leadership role with Government Affairs on behalf of the= =20 EES group of companies, Harry Kingerski will continue to head up the=20 rates/regulatory group, now renamed Government Affairs Support Services.  = =20 This group will continue to provide valuable technical support services=20 throughout Government Affairs and will be expanding its scope of expertise= =20 over the next months to some of the new markets that the company has and wi= ll=20 soon be entering.  Nancy Hetrick and Vinio Floris will join this organizati= on=20 and report to Harry. Jeff Brown, Tom Delaney, Mary Hain, Ron McNamara, Christi Nicolay, Thane=20 Twiggs, and Steve Walton will now report to Jim Steffes in his role=20 supporting Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets. Alberto Levy= =20 will be relocating from our Caracas, Venezuela office and will also report = to=20 Jim.  A couple of special mentions:  Jeff Brown has done an outstanding job= =20 in leading the CUBR (Coalition for Uniform Business Rules) process over the= =20 last year and his current leadership of the Midwest ISO and Alliance RTO=20 efforts for Enron will be critical to the development of well functioning= =20 wholesale electric markets in the U.S.  It is also my hope that Steve Walto= n=20 will play an increased leadership role across North America on wholesale=20 electric market issues.  The incredible knowledge that Steve Walton possess= es=20 of the electric industry, coupled with his industry-wide credibility, will= =20 provide much needed support to our wholesale electric market reform efforts= =20 across North America. Tom Hoatson will now report to Steve Montovano in his new role in supportin= g=20 the company=01,s efforts at PJM.  Tom will also continue to be an=20 organization-wide resource on technical issues regarding generation=20 interconnection and distributed generation.  Kathleen Sullivan has recently= =20 joined Steve=01,s group from Azurix and will be primarily assisting Howard= =20 Fromer in New York. Sue Nord will head up the group that supports EBS.  Scott Bolton and Donald= =20 Lassere, while reporting to Sue, will continue to provide leadership on=20 telecommunications issues.  Scott and Donald have done outstanding work and= =20 will continue to be integral to our efforts in this area. Finally, the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process, beginning 1/1/01, wi= ll=20 be extended to all of Government Affairs in North America, including Federa= l=20 Government Affairs and Mexico.  The RCR Committee, beginning immediately,= =20 will be expanded and will consist of Harry Kingerski, Sue Nord,  Linda=20 Roberston, Jim Steffes, Lisa Yoho & myself. Please feel free to call me if you have any questions. 
Please see the attached update from Richard S. Shapiro, Managing Director, Government Affairs-The Americas. 
FYI - a meeting has been scheduled for May 30 regarding the above subject. If your schedule permits, please feel free to attend.  Also, I am in the process of locating a different room for this meeting.  I will keep you informed of the change. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Please see the attached update from Richard S. Shapiro, Managing Director, Government Affairs-The Americas. 
FYI - a meeting has been scheduled for May 30 regarding the above subject. If your schedule permits, please feel free to attend.  Also, I am in the process of locating a different room for this meeting.  I will keep you informed of the change. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Please see the attached update from Richard S. Shapiro, Managing Director, Government Affairs-The Americas. 
FYI - a meeting has been scheduled for May 30 regarding the above subject. If your schedule permits, please feel free to attend.  Also, I am in the process of locating a different room for this meeting.  I will keep you informed of the change. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Please see the attached update from Richard S. Shapiro, Managing Director, Government Affairs-The Americas. 
FYI - a meeting has been scheduled for May 30 regarding the above subject. If your schedule permits, please feel free to attend.  Also, I am in the process of locating a different room for this meeting.  I will keep you informed of the change. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Richard Shapiro 02/02/2001 10:00 AM 
in Nov & Dec Please distribute to entire group. 
in Nov & Dec Good News.  FERC issued three reports yesterday:  a Response of the Staff of the FERC to Questions Posed at December 20, 2000 Western Governors Association Denver Meeting; a Staff Report to the FERC on Northwest Power Markets in Nov. and Dec. 2000; and a Report on Plant Outages in the State of California.  All three reports can be downloaded from FERC's page on bulk power markets, found at http://www.ferc.fed.us/electric/bulkpower.htm. From a quick scan of the pricing and outage reports, the results are very favorable.  FERC found no evidence that plants were down for other than maintenance or emissions problems.  The pricing report found that prices in the NW during the two months tracked the increased demand and supply shortfall. 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Richard Shapiro 02/02/2001 10:00 AM 
in Nov & Dec Please distribute to entire group. 
in Nov & Dec Good News.  FERC issued three reports yesterday:  a Response of the Staff of the FERC to Questions Posed at December 20, 2000 Western Governors Association Denver Meeting; a Staff Report to the FERC on Northwest Power Markets in Nov. and Dec. 2000; and a Report on Plant Outages in the State of California.  All three reports can be downloaded from FERC's page on bulk power markets, found at http://www.ferc.fed.us/electric/bulkpower.htm. From a quick scan of the pricing and outage reports, the results are very favorable.  FERC found no evidence that plants were down for other than maintenance or emissions problems.  The pricing report found that prices in the NW during the two months tracked the increased demand and supply shortfall. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, please send this cleaned-up version of the Reason Institute's paper on Price Caps to everyone in Govt. Affairs.  Thanks! 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
The next RCR meeting will take place Monday, April 16, 2001 at 12:00 P.M. (CDT).  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805 with Rick listed as the host. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
There are increasing requests for IT development resources for databases and websites within the group.  There are two issues involved regarding this activity:  Enron Networks is now charging for such development, and the production of these many and various projects leads to high maintenance needs and projects are often abandoned after short use. If you need a new database, it should be developed in one of the desktop applications that everyone has - Word, Excel or Access. Such documents/databases can be shared on the O: Common/Public Affairs drive.  If your needs are more complex than these applications will support, or if your needs are more global, an effort should be made to fit the data into the Project Tracking database.  Contact Elizabeth Linnell for this global database. Products/information to be published to the intranet should be placed on the existing Public Affairs intranet site. Having multiple sites is confusing to our customers and an ineffective use of resources, as well as expensive to develop and maintain.  Contact Earlene O'Connell regarding additions to the 
In an effort to control costs for travel expenses, as Jeff Skilling suggested in his floor meeting last week,  Rick would like for everyone to purchase tickets from the Travel Agency in the Park (TAP), which is the preferred travel agent for Enron.  The savings that Enron receives from using TAP is insurmountable.  See below, a list of the contracts Enron has negotiated with some of the airlines.  Whenever possible, plan to purchase tickets at least 3-7 days in advance.  Often the pre-purchase savings outweighs the potential switching fee. The travel agency is also able to give you a better price for hotel reservations through the Hickory rate, which is cheaper then the corporate rate.  TAP's phone number is 713-650-8080 (web address: http://www.travelpark.com) AIRLINE CONTRACTS America West  15% American 28% Continental 17%....25% full business and coach fares US50 to/from Europe Delta 5-28% Northwest/KLM 20 - 30% domestic....25% international TWA 21% - 54% domestic and Houston-Toronto only United 28% US Airways 30% British Air 15 - 35% Also, if at any time you are interested in having your spouse travel with you on a business trip, at the company's expense,  it is necessary for you to have spousal approval.  This approval is needed in advance of the trip, by your immediate supervisor and Rick Shapiro.  Below you will find an attached spousal approval form. gngr 713-853-7751 
The RCR meeting for Monday, April 9 will take place at 2:00 PM (CDT) instead of 12:00 PM (CDT).  Please make note of this time change on your schedules. The dial in number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
With the continued growth of some of the more non-traditional businesses at Enron; e.g., broadband, agricultural commodities, steel, etc..., it has become apparent that additional support from Government Affairs, of these and other non-traditional businesses, is necessary.  To that end, I've asked Harry Kingerski to focus his time and efforts more fully on developing his support group's (Government Affairs Support Services) capabilities, with an objective of broadening their support beyond EES and ENA.  With the void that Harry leaves in formally directing our group's efforts on behalf of EES, I've asked Jim Steffes to assume a leadership role with respect to EES as well as ENA. I've also asked Lisa Yoho to assume responsibility for Enron Industrial Markets in addition to her responsibility for Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks.  No further organizational changes are being made at this time but, as always, organizational flexibility in how our group responds to the needs of the business units will be the order of the day.  I am confident that all of us will support Harry, Lisa and Jim with their additional 
The next RCR call will take place on Monday, March 26 at 12:00pm CST. The dial in number will be 1-800-283-1805 with Rick listed as the host. Thanks gngr 
Janel Guerrero 03/20/2001 08:48 PM 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
The dept. conf. call scheduled for Friday, March 23 at 10:30am (CST) has been cancelled. gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Sydni Marie Robinson was born on 3/18/01 at 12:39 p.m.  She weighed 8 pounds and 7 ounces and was 20 inches long. Baby and mother are doing great.  Father sounds exhausted. Ginger, I didn't know if you wanted to send this out to the group. Geriann Warner GA - The Americans Tel: 713-853-5036 Fax: 713-853-7297 
The next RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 19 at 12:00 PM  CST.  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805. gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The FT/RDI   March  14  California Conference  call discussed the plight of California utilities and customers.  California  is  a state with IOUs on the verge of bankruptcy, that  wants  to  buy up the utilities power grid  assets that is now seeing, after more  than a  year of  constant  natural gas  price hikes,  gas prices starting to decrease.  There  are 3 ways for California  to get out of  this electricty supply bind  and ease off its power price spikes:  add generation over capacity;  have retail users   reduce peak use consumption and find methods  to  use  cheaper storage of power.  The latter is not  available and the first will  eventually  be  available  medium  term.  Thus  dynamic pricing programs  could help  the retail  power decrease  strategy.  The  California  crisis is indirectly  causing several other states  to stall their  deregulation progress, namely  Oklahoma, Arkansas, Nevada and Missouri. Fifty  percent  of US power load is used by  1 percent  of customers--the industrials. In California, the industrials  are only  one-third of  one percent  of customers  and they use 25 percent  of  the  electricity in the  state.  Going  to this industrial market  and using technoogy and pricing to   conserve  electricity  use would go a long way towards reducing peak demand use.   RDI  believes the gas infrastructure in the US is  there for 100  GW of new gas power plants, but many local hookups must be done to meet  super peak days on a localized basis.  California  is racing   to get  5 or  6 peakers  by this summer yet there may not be enough gas this summer to fill their  needs.  Plans  to add  capacity inside  the state   to receive  gas at the border are lagging  the plans of   interstates  to  add capacity. Summer peak use may  be just  as difficult to meet in the US  as winter peaks  have been.  As new merchant plants come online on a  regional  basis differentials will change  a lot.   But most pressure on prices medium term will be downward, and the  items to watch   is  where/when the  new supplies  show up and  where the new niche interconnects   get  built.   In California  the  Gov. does not want  to  let power prices  go above current price  caps  and  this  will be hard for him to do  and  still give price  signals  that  will  take off demand at the  peak of the market.  Average electricity demand  growth annually  in California  has  been about  3 percent per year  since   1998 but   less  than 1 percent of new capacity  has been added.  In concluding remarks, RDI's  John Egan noted  due to the expected  crush of  changes, market vigilence   will be critical  for the  successful  participants in the gas and power markets 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - please forward this to all of GA.  Thanks. This is a request for help from my colleagues in GA.  I am preparing Enron's comments to the Federal Trade Commission concerning the results of different ""regulatory approaches"" by states implementing retail electric competition programs or legislation.  The FTC has invited comments on a number of specific issues, but their goal is to ""examine various state retail competition programs and describe those features that have resulted in 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
Please read this e:mail.  Important detailed information provided. Hi everyone: I  want to follow-up with each of you on some details for the upcoming Government Affairs-The Americas meeting on Friday, March 9.  First thing, your contacts for this upcoming meeting will be Linda Noske (x36082)  & Geriann Warner (x35036).  After Tuesday, February 27, I will be out of the office and unavailable until Monday, March 12. (Aloha!) The meeting will take place at the Woodlands Resort in the ""Lakeside Room"" on Friday, March 9.  A continental breakfast will be available at 7:30am with the meeting beginning promptly at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm (see attached agenda). The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm (see attached map) For those of you who will be staying overnight, as an overnight guest at The Woodlands Resort, you are entitled to dinner the evening of March 8th and breakfast the next morning at the Woodlands Dining Room.   You must let the server know that your meal should be charged to the Enron master account. This service is part of the meeting package that Enron has agreed to.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call Linda or Geriann. The Woodlands Resort provides transportation to and from the airport. Assistants/Coordinators, please schedule any transportation with the resort directly, their number is 281-364-6256.  PARKING: Valet parking is not available, you will need to park in a parking lot on site. ATTIRE:  Friday Casual Below, you will find a list of names with date of arrival/departure for those needing overnight accommodations.  Please check this list for accuracy and get back with me ASAP if changes are needed. gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, please send this cleaned-up version of the Reason Institute's paper on Price Caps to everyone in Govt. Affairs.  Thanks! 
Please read this e:mail.  Important detailed information provided. Hi everyone: I  want to follow-up with each of you on some details for the upcoming Government Affairs-The Americas meeting on Friday, March 9.  First thing, your contacts for this upcoming meeting will be Linda Noske (x36082)  & Geriann Warner (x35036).  After Tuesday, February 27, I will be out of the office and unavailable until Monday, March 12. (Aloha!) The meeting will take place at the Woodlands Resort in the ""Lakeside Room"" on Friday, March 9.  A continental breakfast will be available at 7:30am with the meeting beginning promptly at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm (see attached agenda). The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm (see attached map) For those of you who will be staying overnight, as an overnight guest at The Woodlands Resort, you are entitled to dinner the evening of March 8th and breakfast the next morning at the Woodlands Dining Room.   You must let the server know that your meal should be charged to the Enron master account. This service is part of the meeting package that Enron has agreed to.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call Linda or Geriann. The Woodlands Resort provides transportation to and from the airport. Assistants/Coordinators, please schedule any transportation with the resort directly, their number is 281-364-6256.  PARKING: Valet parking is not available, you will need to park in a parking lot on site. ATTIRE:  Friday Casual Below, you will find a list of names with date of arrival/departure for those needing overnight accommodations.  Please check this list for accuracy and get back with me ASAP if changes are needed. gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - please forward this to all of GA.  Thanks. This is a request for help from my colleagues in GA.  I am preparing Enron's comments to the Federal Trade Commission concerning the results of different ""regulatory approaches"" by states implementing retail electric competition programs or legislation.  The FTC has invited comments on a number of specific issues, but their goal is to ""examine various state retail competition programs and describe those features that have resulted in 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The FT/RDI   March  14  California Conference  call discussed the plight of California utilities and customers.  California  is  a state with IOUs on the verge of bankruptcy, that  wants  to  buy up the utilities power grid  assets that is now seeing, after more  than a  year of  constant  natural gas  price hikes,  gas prices starting to decrease.  There  are 3 ways for California  to get out of  this electricty supply bind  and ease off its power price spikes:  add generation over capacity;  have retail users   reduce peak use consumption and find methods  to  use  cheaper storage of power.  The latter is not  available and the first will  eventually  be  available  medium  term.  Thus  dynamic pricing programs  could help  the retail  power decrease  strategy.  The  California  crisis is indirectly  causing several other states  to stall their  deregulation progress, namely  Oklahoma, Arkansas, Nevada and Missouri. Fifty  percent  of US power load is used by  1 percent  of customers--the industrials. In California, the industrials  are only  one-third of  one percent  of customers  and they use 25 percent  of  the  electricity in the  state.  Going  to this industrial market  and using technoogy and pricing to   conserve  electricity  use would go a long way towards reducing peak demand use.   RDI  believes the gas infrastructure in the US is  there for 100  GW of new gas power plants, but many local hookups must be done to meet  super peak days on a localized basis.  California  is racing   to get  5 or  6 peakers  by this summer yet there may not be enough gas this summer to fill their  needs.  Plans  to add  capacity inside  the state   to receive  gas at the border are lagging  the plans of   interstates  to  add capacity. Summer peak use may  be just  as difficult to meet in the US  as winter peaks  have been.  As new merchant plants come online on a  regional  basis differentials will change  a lot.   But most pressure on prices medium term will be downward, and the  items to watch   is  where/when the  new supplies  show up and  where the new niche interconnects   get  built.   In California  the  Gov. does not want  to  let power prices  go above current price  caps  and  this  will be hard for him to do  and  still give price  signals  that  will  take off demand at the  peak of the market.  Average electricity demand  growth annually  in California  has  been about  3 percent per year  since   1998 but   less  than 1 percent of new capacity  has been added.  In concluding remarks, RDI's  John Egan noted  due to the expected  crush of  changes, market vigilence   will be critical  for the  successful  participants in the gas and power markets 
The next RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 19 at 12:00 PM  CST.  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805. gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Sydni Marie Robinson was born on 3/18/01 at 12:39 p.m.  She weighed 8 pounds and 7 ounces and was 20 inches long. Baby and mother are doing great.  Father sounds exhausted. Ginger, I didn't know if you wanted to send this out to the group. Geriann Warner GA - The Americans Tel: 713-853-5036 Fax: 713-853-7297 
The dept. conf. call scheduled for Friday, March 23 at 10:30am (CST) has been cancelled. gngr 
Janel Guerrero 03/20/2001 08:48 PM 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
The next RCR call will take place on Monday, March 26 at 12:00pm CST. The dial in number will be 1-800-283-1805 with Rick listed as the host. Thanks gngr 
With the continued growth of some of the more non-traditional businesses at Enron; e.g., broadband, agricultural commodities, steel, etc..., it has become apparent that additional support from Government Affairs, of these and other non-traditional businesses, is necessary.  To that end, I've asked Harry Kingerski to focus his time and efforts more fully on developing his support group's (Government Affairs Support Services) capabilities, with an objective of broadening their support beyond EES and ENA.  With the void that Harry leaves in formally directing our group's efforts on behalf of EES, I've asked Jim Steffes to assume a leadership role with respect to EES as well as ENA. I've also asked Lisa Yoho to assume responsibility for Enron Industrial Markets in addition to her responsibility for Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks.  No further organizational changes are being made at this time but, as always, organizational flexibility in how our group responds to the needs of the business units will be the order of the day.  I am confident that all of us will support Harry, Lisa and Jim with their additional 
The RCR meeting for Monday, April 9 will take place at 2:00 PM (CDT) instead of 12:00 PM (CDT).  Please make note of this time change on your schedules. The dial in number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
In an effort to control costs for travel expenses, as Jeff Skilling suggested in his floor meeting last week,  Rick would like for everyone to purchase tickets from the Travel Agency in the Park (TAP), which is the preferred travel agent for Enron.  The savings that Enron receives from using TAP is insurmountable.  See below, a list of the contracts Enron has negotiated with some of the airlines.  Whenever possible, plan to purchase tickets at least 3-7 days in advance.  Often the pre-purchase savings outweighs the potential switching fee. The travel agency is also able to give you a better price for hotel reservations through the Hickory rate, which is cheaper then the corporate rate.  TAP's phone number is 713-650-8080 (web address: http://www.travelpark.com) AIRLINE CONTRACTS America West  15% American 28% Continental 17%....25% full business and coach fares US50 to/from Europe Delta 5-28% Northwest/KLM 20 - 30% domestic....25% international TWA 21% - 54% domestic and Houston-Toronto only United 28% US Airways 30% British Air 15 - 35% Also, if at any time you are interested in having your spouse travel with you on a business trip, at the company's expense,  it is necessary for you to have spousal approval.  This approval is needed in advance of the trip, by your immediate supervisor and Rick Shapiro.  Below you will find an attached spousal approval form. gngr 713-853-7751 
There are increasing requests for IT development resources for databases and websites within the group.  There are two issues involved regarding this activity:  Enron Networks is now charging for such development, and the production of these many and various projects leads to high maintenance needs and projects are often abandoned after short use. If you need a new database, it should be developed in one of the desktop applications that everyone has - Word, Excel or Access. Such documents/databases can be shared on the O: Common/Public Affairs drive.  If your needs are more complex than these applications will support, or if your needs are more global, an effort should be made to fit the data into the Project Tracking database.  Contact Elizabeth Linnell for this global database. Products/information to be published to the intranet should be placed on the existing Public Affairs intranet site. Having multiple sites is confusing to our customers and an ineffective use of resources, as well as expensive to develop and maintain.  Contact Earlene O'Connell regarding additions to the 
The next RCR meeting will take place Monday, April 16, 2001 at 12:00 P.M. (CDT).  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805 with Rick listed as the host. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, please send this cleaned-up version of the Reason Institute's paper on Price Caps to everyone in Govt. Affairs.  Thanks! 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
The next RCR meeting will take place Monday, April 16, 2001 at 12:00 P.M. (CDT).  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805 with Rick listed as the host. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
There are increasing requests for IT development resources for databases and websites within the group.  There are two issues involved regarding this activity:  Enron Networks is now charging for such development, and the production of these many and various projects leads to high maintenance needs and projects are often abandoned after short use. If you need a new database, it should be developed in one of the desktop applications that everyone has - Word, Excel or Access. Such documents/databases can be shared on the O: Common/Public Affairs drive.  If your needs are more complex than these applications will support, or if your needs are more global, an effort should be made to fit the data into the Project Tracking database.  Contact Elizabeth Linnell for this global database. Products/information to be published to the intranet should be placed on the existing Public Affairs intranet site. Having multiple sites is confusing to our customers and an ineffective use of resources, as well as expensive to develop and maintain.  Contact Earlene O'Connell regarding additions to the 
In an effort to control costs for travel expenses, as Jeff Skilling suggested in his floor meeting last week,  Rick would like for everyone to purchase tickets from the Travel Agency in the Park (TAP), which is the preferred travel agent for Enron.  The savings that Enron receives from using TAP is insurmountable.  See below, a list of the contracts Enron has negotiated with some of the airlines.  Whenever possible, plan to purchase tickets at least 3-7 days in advance.  Often the pre-purchase savings outweighs the potential switching fee. The travel agency is also able to give you a better price for hotel reservations through the Hickory rate, which is cheaper then the corporate rate.  TAP's phone number is 713-650-8080 (web address: http://www.travelpark.com) AIRLINE CONTRACTS America West  15% American 28% Continental 17%....25% full business and coach fares US50 to/from Europe Delta 5-28% Northwest/KLM 20 - 30% domestic....25% international TWA 21% - 54% domestic and Houston-Toronto only United 28% US Airways 30% British Air 15 - 35% Also, if at any time you are interested in having your spouse travel with you on a business trip, at the company's expense,  it is necessary for you to have spousal approval.  This approval is needed in advance of the trip, by your immediate supervisor and Rick Shapiro.  Below you will find an attached spousal approval form. gngr 713-853-7751 
The RCR meeting for Monday, April 9 will take place at 2:00 PM (CDT) instead of 12:00 PM (CDT).  Please make note of this time change on your schedules. The dial in number of 1-800-283-1805 will remain the same. Thanks and call if you have any questions. 
With the continued growth of some of the more non-traditional businesses at Enron; e.g., broadband, agricultural commodities, steel, etc..., it has become apparent that additional support from Government Affairs, of these and other non-traditional businesses, is necessary.  To that end, I've asked Harry Kingerski to focus his time and efforts more fully on developing his support group's (Government Affairs Support Services) capabilities, with an objective of broadening their support beyond EES and ENA.  With the void that Harry leaves in formally directing our group's efforts on behalf of EES, I've asked Jim Steffes to assume a leadership role with respect to EES as well as ENA. I've also asked Lisa Yoho to assume responsibility for Enron Industrial Markets in addition to her responsibility for Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks.  No further organizational changes are being made at this time but, as always, organizational flexibility in how our group responds to the needs of the business units will be the order of the day.  I am confident that all of us will support Harry, Lisa and Jim with their additional 
The next RCR call will take place on Monday, March 26 at 12:00pm CST. The dial in number will be 1-800-283-1805 with Rick listed as the host. Thanks gngr 
Janel Guerrero 03/20/2001 08:48 PM 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
The dept. conf. call scheduled for Friday, March 23 at 10:30am (CST) has been cancelled. gngr 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Sydni Marie Robinson was born on 3/18/01 at 12:39 p.m.  She weighed 8 pounds and 7 ounces and was 20 inches long. Baby and mother are doing great.  Father sounds exhausted. Ginger, I didn't know if you wanted to send this out to the group. Geriann Warner GA - The Americans Tel: 713-853-5036 Fax: 713-853-7297 
The next RCR meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 19 at 12:00 PM  CST.  The dial in number is 1-800-283-1805. gngr 
gngr 713-853-7751 
The FT/RDI   March  14  California Conference  call discussed the plight of California utilities and customers.  California  is  a state with IOUs on the verge of bankruptcy, that  wants  to  buy up the utilities power grid  assets that is now seeing, after more  than a  year of  constant  natural gas  price hikes,  gas prices starting to decrease.  There  are 3 ways for California  to get out of  this electricty supply bind  and ease off its power price spikes:  add generation over capacity;  have retail users   reduce peak use consumption and find methods  to  use  cheaper storage of power.  The latter is not  available and the first will  eventually  be  available  medium  term.  Thus  dynamic pricing programs  could help  the retail  power decrease  strategy.  The  California  crisis is indirectly  causing several other states  to stall their  deregulation progress, namely  Oklahoma, Arkansas, Nevada and Missouri. Fifty  percent  of US power load is used by  1 percent  of customers--the industrials. In California, the industrials  are only  one-third of  one percent  of customers  and they use 25 percent  of  the  electricity in the  state.  Going  to this industrial market  and using technoogy and pricing to   conserve  electricity  use would go a long way towards reducing peak demand use.   RDI  believes the gas infrastructure in the US is  there for 100  GW of new gas power plants, but many local hookups must be done to meet  super peak days on a localized basis.  California  is racing   to get  5 or  6 peakers  by this summer yet there may not be enough gas this summer to fill their  needs.  Plans  to add  capacity inside  the state   to receive  gas at the border are lagging  the plans of   interstates  to  add capacity. Summer peak use may  be just  as difficult to meet in the US  as winter peaks  have been.  As new merchant plants come online on a  regional  basis differentials will change  a lot.   But most pressure on prices medium term will be downward, and the  items to watch   is  where/when the  new supplies  show up and  where the new niche interconnects   get  built.   In California  the  Gov. does not want  to  let power prices  go above current price  caps  and  this  will be hard for him to do  and  still give price  signals  that  will  take off demand at the  peak of the market.  Average electricity demand  growth annually  in California  has  been about  3 percent per year  since   1998 but   less  than 1 percent of new capacity  has been added.  In concluding remarks, RDI's  John Egan noted  due to the expected  crush of  changes, market vigilence   will be critical  for the  successful  participants in the gas and power markets 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - please forward this to all of GA.  Thanks. This is a request for help from my colleagues in GA.  I am preparing Enron's comments to the Federal Trade Commission concerning the results of different ""regulatory approaches"" by states implementing retail electric competition programs or legislation.  The FTC has invited comments on a number of specific issues, but their goal is to ""examine various state retail competition programs and describe those features that have resulted in 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
Please read this e:mail.  Important detailed information provided. Hi everyone: I  want to follow-up with each of you on some details for the upcoming Government Affairs-The Americas meeting on Friday, March 9.  First thing, your contacts for this upcoming meeting will be Linda Noske (x36082)  & Geriann Warner (x35036).  After Tuesday, February 27, I will be out of the office and unavailable until Monday, March 12. (Aloha!) The meeting will take place at the Woodlands Resort in the ""Lakeside Room"" on Friday, March 9.  A continental breakfast will be available at 7:30am with the meeting beginning promptly at 8:00am and concluding by 3:00pm (see attached agenda). The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Fax# 281-364-6274 Check-In time is 3:00pm Check-Out time is 12:00pm (see attached map) For those of you who will be staying overnight, as an overnight guest at The Woodlands Resort, you are entitled to dinner the evening of March 8th and breakfast the next morning at the Woodlands Dining Room.   You must let the server know that your meal should be charged to the Enron master account. This service is part of the meeting package that Enron has agreed to.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call Linda or Geriann. The Woodlands Resort provides transportation to and from the airport. Assistants/Coordinators, please schedule any transportation with the resort directly, their number is 281-364-6256.  PARKING: Valet parking is not available, you will need to park in a parking lot on site. ATTIRE:  Friday Casual Below, you will find a list of names with date of arrival/departure for those needing overnight accommodations.  Please check this list for accuracy and get back with me ASAP if changes are needed. gngr 
The Woodlands, TX here we come!!!!!!  I hope everyone is ready for the next Government Affairs - The Americas department meeting.  The meeting is scheduled for Thursday, March 30 at 9:00am and should conclude by 4:00pm. For those staying over night, I will be putting a rooming list together and will need to know your plans for attending this meeting by, Friday, March 3. I know this is somewhat short notice but I'd like to get this finalized sooner, rather than later, so your co-operation in this matter will be greatly appreciated.  The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Guest Fax# 281-364-6274 The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport.  The shuttle service operates every hour on the hour from 6:00am - 10:00pm.   Please let me know what your travel arrangements are and I will forward it to the transportation department.  Once I have forwarded all of the transportation requests to them, any changes that need to be made will need to be made directly with the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. Attached is a draft agenda for the meeting (Pamela Lesh and Lance Schuler, please note the time of your presentations.  Also, please let me know what your audio visual needs will be and I will make sure it is available). Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr 
You have received a new IS&S request for richard shapiro.  Please review the request and make any necessary changes.  If you approve the access, please click the Approve button at the top of the request form and EES Security will receive notification.  You may click the link at the end of this message to view the request document. 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
approval 
approval Attached below the article is the Resolution 
Please keep in mind, until the FERC responds, there will be no changes to our markets. (See attached file: resolution bid caps august 16.doc) Also FYI: Dow Jones Newswires CalPX To Ask FERC To Reduce Day-of, Day-Ahead Price Cap: Board Caves In To Political Pressure By Jason Leopold LOS ANGELES--The California Power Exchange, the spot market where electricity is bought and sold in the state, approved a measure Wednesday seeking federal authority to impose a $350 per megawatt-hour bid cap on wholesale power prices in its day-of and day-ahead markets. Members of the CalPX's board of governors admitted that the measure was approved as a result of intense political pressure being placed on the board by state lawmakers and Gov. Gray Davis. ""Not approving this is political suicide,"" said CalPX board member Carolyn Keherein, who also serves on the board of governors at the California Independent System Operator. ""We're not changing 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation Please note for your review the following news article which appeared in the August 22, 2000 edition of the San Francisco Chronicle: [Ginger:  please also route/distribute to those whom you deem appropriate. Thanks!] Joseph Alamo Sr. Administrative Assistant Government Affairs - The Americas San Francisco CA ---------------------------------------------------------------------- This article was sent to you by someone who found it on SF Gate. The original article can be found on SFGate.com here: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/22/M N1901.DTL ---------------------------------------------------------------------- August 22, 2000 (SF Chronicle) Partial Electric Rate Freeze OKd for Hard-Hit San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation David Lazarus, Chronicle Staff Writer Responding to calls for action from Gov. Gray Davis, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a limited rate freeze yesterday for electricity users in San Diego, where power bills have skyrocketed in recent months. However, the measure was harshly criticized by San Diego officials and consumer activists as being an insufficient remedy for surging rates resulting from deregulation of the state's electricity market. They are now looking for relief from legislators in Sacramento, who are expected to vote today on a bill that would allow them to sidestep state energy regulators and impose more extensive restrictions on how much San Diegans can be charged for power. ""I'm extremely, extremely disappointed,"" said San Diego County Supervisor Dianne Jacob, who flew up for yesterday's PUC meeting in San Francisco with other local officials. Former San Diego Mayor Maureen O'Connor urged California legislators to scrap the state's electricity deregulation altogether. ""To continue the farce so that the whole state is under this terrorist economic endeavor is just ridiculous,"" she said. O'Connor added that Bay Area ratepayers should be concerned about what will happen when Pacific Gas and Electric Co. lifts a freeze on its own electricity rates, perhaps as soon as next summer. ""We already have the train wreck in San Diego,"" she said. ""It's coming 
Below please find the strategy document that was put together by Jim Steffes at the meeting on Tuesday, September 19. gngr 
James D Steffes 11/02/2000 06:13 PM 
Ginger -- Can you please distribute to all of Rick's group. 1. Talking Points 2. FERC Order Summary 
Please forward to Gov't Affairs group. Enron North America Corp. 
Systems 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 11/10/2000 03:22 PM 
Systems Please forward this to Rick's group.  Thanks. Please note that these FERC staff reports contain some potentially helpful information that can be used at the state PUC level, including information on the increase in generation in the Midwest that market participants attribute to lack of price caps following the summer 1998 price spikes; better preparation for summer 2000 through the use of forward contracts and transmission problems that may have resulted in keeping cheaper power from particular markets. On 11/1/00, FERC Staff issued reports on its Investigation of Bulk Power Markets in the Eastern Interconnection.  These reports were the result of a Commission order earlier this summer.  Enron's Federal regulatory staff (Christi, Charles Yeung, and Sarah Novosel) provided a great deal of information for this investigation and Joe Hartsoe and Donna Fulton discussed many of the problems with the grid with the new head of Staff, Scott Miller (who recently joined FERC from PG&E Gen).    While the Commission is under no obligation to take any of Staff's recommendations, the Commission typically looks to Staff for guidance on transmission and market issues.  Importantly, Staff concludes that the Commission should consider these options for the Southeast and Midwest -- all of which Enron has been asking FERC to implement for several years: Reduce the advantages of network service over point to point service by requiring that native load be served under the same tariff as other transmission services to eliminate the current incentives that VIUs have to favor their native load through the calculation of ATC and handling of interconnection requests. While the Staff Hotline is used productively, the Commission can direct Staff to conduct formal investigations into entities that have a pattern of complaints. The Commission could require TPs to submit tariff provisions containing a pro forma interconnection process specific to interconnection, rather than simply relying on the Tennessee Power order that utilizes the OATT timelines and procedures. Require TPs to retain real-time transmission data on market functions pertaining to daily load, internal generation to meet that load, and imports and exports. RTOs should submit the basis and methods for calculating ATC and TTC, as well as standardized criteria for curtailment.  In addition, since even such standardized criteria might not ""get to the root of the problem"" -- that control area still control generation -- the Commission could require that each RTO set a date certain by which it will create one control area. Regardless of the implementation of these two options, the Commission could standardize ATC and TTC methodology. Staff finds that while electricity is a commodity with market characteristics similar to many other commodities, it is still viewed as ""different,"" with a reaction of price caps.  Staff encourages that basic decisions about the regulatory model be made in order to complete the transition from a traditional cost-of-service model to a model that uses markets to price the commodity and services. DETAILS  (Also, the reports contain good summaries of the generation, transmission, state retail, federal reg. and other issues for the region): Midwest:  The Midwest is dominated by vertically integrated Transmission Providers (""TPs"") that control transmission, generation and load.  ""As such, they have weak economic incentives to provide access to transmission service to third-parties and strong incentives to favor their own services.""  Staff received numerous complaints; however, due to the lack of information available from TPs, Staff cannot conclude whether these are isolated incidents or wide-spread.  At the very least, the complaints indicate a lack of confidence in the bulk power market and the ability of market participants to rely on transmission access, thus harming the liquidity of the market. TLRs are the most important transmission issue in the Midwest, with an ""enormous"" increase in 2000.  The region showed a decline in peak load from 1999 to 2000 and a growth in new generation since the 1998 price spikes. Even though there was an increase in generation and mild weather with virtually no price spikes, TLRs climbed to record numbers.  The TLRs were highly concentrated:  only 5 flowgates account for 41% of ECAR TLRs and another 5 flowgates in MAIN account for 42% in that region.  Notably, even though the NERC procedures for Level 3 TLRs mandate transaction curtailment, 78 of the 191 TLRs in the Midwest do not show any curtailment amount.  The total amount of relief that these curtailments are intended to produce are not posted.  Staff notes that TLR rules are established by NERC, whose procedures are voluntary and not enforced by penalties.  While the Commission has required certain NERC standards and procedures to be placed in Open Access Transmission Tariffs (""OATT"") where the Commission has the power to enforce provisions under the Federal Power Act, in practice the Commission has generally deferred to NERC on transmission reliability questions, including the propriety of TLRs. TLRs inhibit optimal functioning of the transmission system and market because load is not served by the least cost supplier.  TLR procedure is an inefficient instrument in mitigating constraints -- curtailment by fiat.  In addition, the NERC IDC can result in inappropriate curtailments or increased loading on the affected flowgate.  The impact could be mitigated by one control area per RTO. Staff notes that the Midwest state commissions did not petition FERC for price caps following the 1998 price spikes.  Some market participants believe that the absence of price spikes is the single reason that NUG construction increased in the Midwest. Market participants must keep track of, and follow, a plethora of information in order to make energy deals, submit reservations and provide schedules for service.  Staff received many complaints about barriers to transmission access, including TLR curtailments and a lack of standardized information and protocols, particularly for ATC and interconnection requests, and discriminatory conduct.  Unbelievably, key data was unavailable to Staff, such coincident peak load data, system-wide snap shots for days when TLRs were called, and import/export data.  This lack of data creates a market inefficiency, because neither market participants nor regulators can fully analyze market conditions in real time.  As such, the market is risk adverse, eschewing long-term deals for short-term transactions.  Staff also noted that because the Security Coordinators often work for the IOU, there is a mixed incentive to enforce reliability on the grid and maximize profit for the IOU.  (Staff cites Richard Tabors' paper, ""Transmission Markets, Stretching the Rules for Fun and Profit."") Staff cites the lack of information on OASIS or on the NERC web site, particularly about real time TLRs and curtailments.  Examples were provided to Staff of transmission refusals when there were no TLRs posted and improper implementation of TLRs causing substantial financial loss. The currently proposed Midwest RTOs may mitigate some problems; however, all three retain existing control areas with the favortism for generation and native load.  These incentives will continue to remain until the RTO exercises complete autonomy over transmission control and security coordinator functions.  Staff notes that the Midwest is a balkanized region of 61 control areas with no uniform method for calculating ATC and CBM.  The result is that ATCs can be different on 2 different sides of an interface. Staff notes examples in inaccurate ATCs and states that Staff's own ATC audit this summer was consistent with market participant complaints.  Staff is weighing follow-up options.  The result of these problems is a lack of liquidity. Staff next noted the problems with unfiled ""business practices,"" especially on the next hour market.  Staff's audit of OASIS sites revealed several areas of non-compliance. Information transparency is necessary for a market to function efficiently, with equal and timely access to data, including ATC, CBM, TRM, and load flow input data.  TPs have incentives to resist efforts to make this information transparent because of native load.  This incentive will still exist under RTOs if utilities are allowed to calculate their own ATC.  ***  ""As a consequence, the Commission may wish to eliminate the native load exemption and have all transactions under the same tariff.""  ***  The Commission could benefit by having access to existing transmission data and should require the TPs to retain data, including current real-time network status. Interconnection Issues:  IPPs need to be compensated for VAR support.  Also, Staff cites a number of Hotline complaints about TPs seeking large deposits or failing to complete System Impact Studies timely.  One solution is to have the RTO handle this function to eliminate the disincentive the utilities have against IPPs.  The current practice of requiring IPPs to deal with a wide variety of procedures inhibits the free flow of transactions within the region. Network service has inherent advantages over point-to-point, citing the 
FYI - see e:mail below from Sarah Novosel. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate this summary to everyone in government affairs. = =20 The summary is similar to the summary Christi sent to you on Friday on FERC= =20 Staff's report on the midwest and southeast regions. Thanks Ginger Sarah 
Attached is a summary of FERC Staff=01,s November 1, 2000 report on its=20 investigation of the Northeast region.  The report is very encouraging=20 because it is comprehensive and recommends many of the changes and solution= s=20 that Enron has been advocating for years.  The report is also encouraging= =20 because it indicates a significant level of understanding of the northeast= =20 markets (and the problems in these markets) by the FERC people who worked o= n=20 this report.  Because this is only a brief summary, the entire report=20 (particularly sections 4 and 5) should be read in detail.  A copy of the=20 report is attached. Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah =20 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
Please see below information on the West Virginia Settlement from Janine Migden. 
Thom and I have just completed negotiations in West Virginia involving APS, AEP and other stakeholders. The settlement, being filed today is a compromise on all the issues and is the result of negotiations.  Enron was the only marketer involved in the process.  While we weighed in all the issues, there are a number of items that but for our persistence would not have been included in the final agreement.  These items include the following: 1.  Native load language 2.  Competitive metering and billing for industrial and large commercials as of day one, with other customers following no later than within the next four years. 3.  Addition of competitive bidding for default service at end of 5 years. 4.  Change from functional separation to a requirement to corporately separate as soon as possible but no later than within the next five years. 5.  Strong codes of conduct that form the base for more detailed rulemaking. (A special thanks to Lara Leibman for her assistance). Below is a summary of the entire settlement: 1.  All customers can exercise choice beginning January 1, 2001. 2.  All utilities including IOU's, munies and coops can opt in.  APS has committed to opt in whereas AEP is not because it did not get any stranded cost and it also did not get a guarantee of full recovery of all costs resulting from the environmental lawsuits against them irrespective of their financial condition. 3.  Competitive metering and billing as described above. 4.  Generation is deregulated. 5.  PSC continues jurisdiction over implemention, rate unbundling, reliability, codes of conduct, supplier licensing, construction of transmission lines and eminent domain authority. 6.  Native load language - Requires utilities to provide service to affiliated and unaffiliated suppliers only under the applicable distribution tariffs and proformatransmission tariffs. 7.  RTO's - Each utility must join a FERC approved RTO or its equivlent by no later than 1/1/03;  best efforts requirement to eliminate pancaking by 1/1/05 if IOU's are in separate RTO's. 8.  Competitive bidding process for  default service customers at end of year 5 for remainder of transition period. 9.  Rate unbundling requirement 10. Rates capped for first 4 years with any FERC change in transmission being applied as an offset to distribution. Rates continue to be regulated through the 10th year with the rate gradually increasing during the second six years for the residential and small commercial customers.  For the large commercial and industrial customers, the rate regulation ends 12/31/07. 11.  A rate stabilization deferral fund is created to facilitate the transition to competition in years 11, 12 and 13, under which APS must contribute $56.75 million and AEP must contribute $81 million to be used as an offset to the prices paid by small residential and commercial default customers. 12.  Large commercial and industrial customers receive for the first 4 years, rate decreases in an amount to be determined by the Commission for AEP customers and 3% for APS customers.  The rate decrease is allocated to distribution. 13.  No stranded costs (either generating or regulatory assets) for AEP or APS, however APS gets a ten year PURPA surcharge starting at 2.6 mills per kwh in year one and declining to .75 mills per kwh in the last two years. 14.  Usual licensing requirements.  (AEP fought for the right to have a second tier of licensing where they would have the ability to certify marketers but we defeated that). 15. Corporate separation and codes of conduct as described above. 16. Consumer protection and education requirements typically found in other plans. 17. Low income protection provisions providing a .2 mil surcharge with the minimum being $.40 and the maximum being $300. 18. Utility worker protection plan. Below for your information is the plan. At this point the plan goes to the PSC for approval and then on to the legislature for a resoulution approving the PSC order.  We expect that AEP and labor will oppose it, so it will be a close call. Janine 
Please see e:mail from Nancy Hetrick below. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, would you please distribute this e-mail to everyone in Government Affairs.  Thanks. As you all know, Enron has been actively participating in an industry-wide collaborative effort, working to develop recommended Uniform Business Practices (UBP) for Retail Energy Markets.  This effort was in direct response to the Coalition for Uniform Business Rules (CUBR) report, which was published in September 1999.  THE UBP released Volume 1 of a two-volume final report on November 22, 2000.   Volume 1 includes recommend business practices for the following topics:  Customer Information, Customer Enrollment & Switching, Billing & Payment Processing, Exhibit - Billing Services Agreement, Load Profiling, Supplier Licensing, Market Participant Interaction( MPI):  Governing Documents and Performance Standards, Exhibit - Outline for Master Service Agreement, Disputes Between Utility and the Supplier, Customer Inquiries, Exhibit - Customer Account Maintenance and Glossary.  Also included in the document is an Introduction and a Preface. We would like to promote the use of this UBP report as a key item to be included in Enron's advocacy efforts for state restructuring legislation and commission implementation proceedings.  This report can be downloaded and printed from the following website:  http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/index.htm .  If you would prefer to receive a printed copy of this report, please e-mail me with your request and we will make the necessary arrangments for the report to be printed and distributed. Volume 2 which will address unbundled electricity metering will be published by year-end 2000.  I will let you know when this portion of the report is available. Also, please feel free to contact me if you have any questions regarding this report or if you would like assistance in promoting the use of the UBP report within the various states.  Vinio Floris, who has recently joined our group, will also be working with me to promote the use of this report.  Barbara Hueter is also devoting time to this project by participating with other 
Competition... - CERA Alert 
See msg. from Margaret Carson. gngr 713-853-7751 
Competition... - CERA Alert Ginger, Please send this to all govt affairs people  as it has  some very good insights into State by State initiatives.  Thanks,   Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert Some  good insight  here..Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Wed, November 29, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: Limited Chances to Play Won't Bench the Competition... Author: Biehl, Behrens E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Retail Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1430 , Alternative URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ref/alt/112900_19/ref_alt_112900_19_ab.html ********************************************************* RETAIL MARKTERS SEE OPPORTUNITY IN NONTRADITIONAL WAYS TO GROW CUSTOMER BASE With a tight supply-demand balance for natural gas and power in most US regions, CERA sees another difficult year ahead for retail marketers. * Nontraditional means of acquiring customer bases may offer a better opportunity for retail marketers to build market share in 2001 in order to be better positioned when more attractive retail market opportunities open in 2002. * Competitive retail suppliers are looking closely at supplying the regulated customer base (through standard offer or default service) and municipal aggregation to build customer base. Movements by regulators to reset prices below market standard offers for power are improving market conditions in several US Northeast states. **end** Follow URL for complete Monthly Briefing. ********************************************************* Come Shoot the Rapids with us at CERAWeek2001, ""Shooting the Rapids: Strategies and Risks for the Energy Future"" in Houston, February 12-16, 2001!  For more information and to register, please visit http://www.cera.com/ceraweek/ ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Forwarding info. below per the request of Christi Nicolay. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to Rick's group in North America, Canada and PR.  Thanks. 
=?ANSI_X3.4-1968?Q?orities,_RCR=01,s_&_Legal_Agreements?= 
Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. 
Please see forwarded attachments from Jeff Brown. Thanks & Happy Holidays!!!!!! gngr 
Ginger - Please forward to Rick's group.  Thanks - Jeff The attached files include:  (1) a detailed schedule of activities over the next six months  (2)  achievements to date and (3)  a directory of the Advisory Committee. 
Attached are the presentations from the Government Affairs-The Americas dept. meeting which was held on Friday, December 8.  For those of you who missed the special presentation for Rick, it is attached for your viewing pleasure (see luggage). gngr 
Rick asked that I get the US/Canada Goverment Affairs ""Working Group"" list to everyone, so here it is! gngr 
Msg. from Rick Shapiro I know how eagerly everyone is awaiting the formation of the Resource Allocation Working group*.  Below is a brief description of the group's purpose and initial steps we will be taking.  I want to thank everyone in advance for what I know will be a successful effort. What this group is about:       Identifying best practices within Public Affairs for prioritization of efforts and allocation of resources and documenting the best practices for implementation as soon as possible throughout Public Affairs. How we're going to do it:  Quickly and efficiently. Why we're doing this:  Because we have finite human and financial resources.... because we have an obligation to direct those finite resources to their highest and best use. When we're going to start this process:  Initial meeting in Houston, January 7, 2000 from 8:00am - 11:00am (call in participation is perfectly acceptable). What's required for initial meeting:  A one page or less description of how your group prioritizes its efforts; how both human and financial resources are allocated, and how all of this fits within your budgeting process (should be distributed to all group members two (2) days prior to meeting). Finally:  I am attaching material that my group has used over the last year to implement a resource allocation/issue priortization process.  I will provide a more detailed explanation at the initial meeting.  Please feel free to call me if you have any questions before then. *  You've either been nominated or selected, or volunteered for this working group.  Congratulations. Copy of E:mail sent on 12/15/99 Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. Copy of E:Mail Sent on 10/19/99 Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> Copy of E:mail sent on 8/25/99 Upon further reflection after the recent staff meeting, I have made the determination that any and allengagements of outside resources, e.g., outside counsel & consultants, public relations firms, etc... must be approved through the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process.  Accordingly, the $2500 trigger that had been in place is no longer.  To ensure that the process works in a more timely manner, I am creating weekly RCR meetings (Harry, Jim & myself) at which all pending RCR's will be acted on.  I will deal with emergency RCR's as they may arise between the weekly meetings. Bottom line, the RCR process is of enormous value to the group as it helps to document that we are properly focusing the company's resources in the places where it is of most value.  I firmly believe that whatever minor inconveniences this change will entail, they are minor in relationship to ensuring the success and credibility of the RCR process. Memo sent on 3/18/99 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Robin and Gia became the proud parents of Sophia Abigail on Monday, December 11, at 9:50 am.  She weighed 9 and 1/2 pounds and is 21 inches long.  Robin and Sophia are both doing well, as is Gia, although he reports being a bit 
We recently concluded an exercise to identify the top =01&ten=018 objective= s for=20 U.S./Canada Government Affairs for 2000, which I presented to the group at= =20 the December 16 staff meeting.  Our success in achieving these objectives= =20 will define the group=01,s success in the New Year. Two of our top three objectives involve providing support to the Risk=20 Management group in EES.  Number 3 and Number 2 (one of the number 2=01,s) = are,=20 respectively, ? Ensure that PG&E=01,s generation-related stranded cost is =01&rolled off= =018 no=20 later than September 30, 2000 and generally protect and inform EES curves ? Understand rules/tariffs/outcomes better than anyone else and convert to= =20 information valuable to business units As a general matter, it is imperative that we continue to assure ourselves= =20 that our everyday efforts are focused on achieving the objectives that are = so=20 critical to our success.  The way the group provides support to EES Risk=20 Management, and in turn achieves the objectives noted above, is one area=20 where there is potential to improve performance with a refocusing of effort= s. Toward this end, I am asking that these individuals take on the=20 responsibility, for their respective regional group, of being a point of=20 contact for EES Risk Management: Mona Petrochko, Western Region  Kate Wagner, South Central/Southeast Region Becky Merola, Great Lakes/Midwest Region Frank Rishe, Mid Atlantic/New=20 York/New England Region Mona, Becky, Kate and Frank will work with individuals on the EES pricing= =20 desk to improve the flow of information necessary for timely, accurate=20 utility rate curves and help EES develop strategies to improve the economic= s=20 of existing outsource deals.  I expect this activity will take a significan= t=20 portion of their time.  They will coordinate their efforts with Harry=20 Kingerski and Pat Keene who will continue to provide a centralized support = to=20 EES Risk Management from Houston. I recognize that many of you are called on from time to time to provide oth= er=20 types of support to EES, for sales calls, licensing requirements,=20 environmental issues, legal support, and the like.  This change in no way= =20 affects these other activities and you should continue to pursue those=20 efforts. =20 As a final note, I invite all of you to identify and bring to me ways we ca= n=20 improve our chances of success in meeting any of our Year 2000 objectives. = I=20 am not interested in change just for its own sake but will certainly consid= er=20 doing things differently if our likelihood of success can be improved.=20 
You have received a new IS&S request for richard shapiro.  Please review the request and make any necessary changes.  If you approve the access, please click the Approve button at the top of the request form and EES Security will receive notification.  You may click the link at the end of this message to view the request document. 
Please let me know if the time below will work on your calendars for the above mentioned meeting. Monday, February 28, 8-9:30am cst/9:00-10:30am est/or 2-3:30pm London Please respond at your earliest convenience. Helen Rizzo * - Rick would like John to attend if these times will work into his schedule. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Enron Energy Services Phone No: 713 853-7751 
Rick would like to hold a conference call regarding the above subject.  In checking with Rick's, Steve's & Mark Schroeders schedules the times below would work best for their calendars and Thursday the 24th is the date with the most possibilities.  Please let me know if any and all of these times would work for you to attend.  Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Thursday, February 24 Anytime after 11:00am cst/12:00pm est/4:00pm London 
The Woodlands, TX here we come!!!!!!  I hope everyone is ready for the next Government Affairs - The Americas department meeting.  The meeting is scheduled for Thursday, March 30 at 9:00am and should conclude by 4:00pm. For those staying over night, I will be putting a rooming list together and will need to know your plans for attending this meeting by, Friday, March 3. I know this is somewhat short notice but I'd like to get this finalized sooner, rather than later, so your co-operation in this matter will be greatly appreciated.  The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Guest Fax# 281-364-6274 The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport.  The shuttle service operates every hour on the hour from 6:00am - 10:00pm.   Please let me know what your travel arrangements are and I will forward it to the transportation department.  Once I have forwarded all of the transportation requests to them, any changes that need to be made will need to be made directly with the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. Attached is a draft agenda for the meeting (Pamela Lesh and Lance Schuler, please note the time of your presentations.  Also, please let me know what your audio visual needs will be and I will make sure it is available). Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr 
Attached is a copy of S. 2098, the ""Electric Power Market Competition and Reliability Act"" sponsored by Senator Murkowski. Ginger - would you please forward to the folks in Rick's group?  Thanks. 
Ginger - Attached are Enron's finalized comments on the Barton bill.  Would you please forward to all the folks in Rick's group and include Steve Kean? Many thanks. 
These talking points are to help you address questions about the Front Line program that took place last night. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beyond the two excellent editorials in today's WSJ (attached) the following should be the key messages: 1.  The show was an aimless wander through the well-worn territory of blame-game politics, with a healthy dose of fear mongering thrown in. 2.  It should not surprise anyone that two Berkley-based journalists, working in conjunction with the New York Times, would ignore Econ 101 and suggest that the solution for California's energy crisis is to subject the entire nation to Roosevelt era New Deal regulations.  Such pinings have been abandoned over the past 65 years, but if the New York Times wants to stake out that position ... fine.  It will probably help sharpen the debate and set up a clear victory for the market when supply comes onstream and prices moderate.  (Much sooner than the decades of legal wrangling to return to New Deal regulations.) 3.  The show completely ignored the failings of California's political and regulatory leadership to moderate or even eliminate the crisis when they had a chance. 4.  Of the electricity consumed in California, less than 15 percent is generated by companies headquartered in Texas.  More than 50 percent of the electricity in California is generated by municipal entities that have been charging the same high prices as the Texas ""pirates.""  These good pirates include the Bonneville Power Administration, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Government of British Columbia, and the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. Business World: California's Ship of Fools By Holman W. Jenkins Jr. 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A27 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Lamenting the politician's lot in ""Profiles in Courage,"" John F. Kennedy wrote that ""In no other occupation is it expected that a man will sacrifice honors, prestige and his chosen career on a single issue."" Of course, no politician would last long if he didn't blow with the wind nine times out of 10. But on the tenth occasion even California has the right to expect some courage. We don't know what happens when an advanced economy like California's suffers day after day of blackouts. We may be about to find out. Modern office architecture becomes uninhabitable without air-conditioning and elevators. Old people and asthmatics may die in the heat. So may drivers at unlit traffic crossings. Steps could still be taken to lessen the blackouts, but voters wouldn't know the difference, and it's so much easier to cast blame. Gov. Gray Davis prates about a ""war with Texas."" And who knows what secret failures as a human being led Bill Lockyer, the attorney general, to threaten Enron's Ken Lay with homosexual rape in the California prison system. California has found itself singularly lacking in heroes in its hour of crisis. Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Davis harp on price, but the true problem is the unavailability of power at any price to meet the demand that exists under the current structure of retail rates. Both must know the solution they noisily advocate, federal price controls slapped across Western electricity markets, wouldn't bring power into existence to close the gap. Their proposal would simply saddle the feds with the dirty job of apportioning blackouts from California's mistakes across half a dozen other states. In California itself, municipal utilities in Santa Clara, Palo Alto and other towns have already announced they won't participate in rolling blackouts. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power certainly isn't volunteering. Why should voters in other states? Why not just cut the lines and let California monopolize the darkness? A state review board in Washington has already vetoed a proposed plant rather than suffer local pollution for power destined for California. Mr. Davis knows this; he knows price controls would create a new problem without solving the shortages. Meanwhile, the specter nobody wants to talk about is the state of California itself headed for bankruptcy if it continues to be willing to pay any price to satisfy the demand of consumers shielded from the true cost of power. Mr. Davis's version of the Big Lie is that Texas is to blame. Texas companies account for just 12% of California's supply, having bought 7,000 of the 20,000 megawatts that local utilities were forced to sell under ""deregulation."" Being in the right place at the right time has always been profitable, but any windfall has been spread widely among suppliers of gas, pipeline capacity, storage and ancillary services. Take Enron: Its revenues quadrupled in the past year, but so did its costs, and profits are up only 31%. A leaked California memo names as two of the biggest ""gougers"" BC Hydro, owned by Canadian taxpayers, and the U.S. Bonneville Power Administration. Their sin was letting their reservoirs fill up overnight while meeting local needs with spot-market power, so they could sell their own production for higher prices to California during the day. These are precisely efforts that might stop if price controls were imposed across the West, making the shortages worse, probably much worse. Northwestern smelters might be better off reclaiming the cheap hydro they've been passing on to California -- 3,000 megawatts, enough for two million homes. Farmers could resume irrigating. Seattle, Tacoma, Boise and other neighbors have all done what California has failed yet to do, hiking rates to curb demand. Rather than emulate them, Gov. Davis's peacock of an energy czar, David Freeman, babbles about ""public power,"" the answer to a question nobody asked, the solution to a nonexistent problem. Prices of electricity and natural gas for future delivery are already falling as investors race to build new plants and pipelines to meet the state's future needs. Markets foresee the crisis ending without Mr. Freeman's antique New Deal schemes. What's been missing while folks like him ride their hobby horses, though, is the courage to take steps necessary to minimize the suffering this summer. One large source of untapped power is California's own small generators, known as qualifying facilities. Their fee scale is set by the state, but California couldn't even summon the political competence to keep them in business, so 3,000 megawatts sit idle. People have tried to attach all kinds of ideological baggage to the California mess, but we wouldn't be here if water flows in the Columbia River system weren't down 54% from normal. Last summer, California's fossil-fuel generators increased their output by a whopping 62% to make up the shortfall, mostly by running existing plants harder. Yes, there have been flaky prices, partly because, mysteriously, California continues to use a discredited computer program to book a large chunk of its power one hour in advance. But the flaky prices also represent a system pulling out all stops to save California from itself. We said back in December there's only one solution: Jack up rates to stop consumers trying to burn more power than the state can beg, borrow or steal. The only question was when Gov. Davis would find the courage. Hard to believe, but the price hikes his regulators approved in March are still on the drawing board and busily being watered down. Someone should point out to Gov. Davis that the author of ""Profiles in Courage"" wasn't endorsing career suicide but suggesting that politicians must husband their leadership for times when it really counts. Not a few people in public life understand this. Al Gore openly yearned for the day when he could justify the compromises and trimming he's done in his life. But Mr. Davis is perhaps too lost in the dark to understand he is blowing the whole reason to have a political career. What borders on the stupefying, though, is the failure of any other Californian of prominence to step forward and speak truth about the power crisis. By all rights Gov. Davis should be a political leper, yet he actually stands a microscopic chance of being re-elected because of the sheer poverty, in a state of 34 million people, of the Republican opposition. Arnold Schwarzenegger is looking better all the time. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial) California Squeaks By 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A26 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) The California energy crisis is now more than a year old and Governor Gray Davis has done nothing but squeak at it. At first, he attacked out-of-state power generators for being pirates and marauders. But lately he has focused on FERC and President Bush, demanding that the federal government place price caps on the sale of wholesale power. He's even rustled up 10 economists -- including the dad of deregulation, Alfred Kahn -- to support him. Well, as most everybody knows -- including the economists who have come out in favor of them -- price caps don't work. If caps are set too low, (as politics often dictate), existing supply will shrink and demand will grow, making the situation worse. Even ""correctly"" set price caps will discourage additional supply and do nothing to moderate demand. The usual result is an aggravation of shortages and rationing. Indeed, the history of price caps, particularly during the energy crisis in the early 1970s -- when oil prices were capped and lines at gasoline stations were long -- bears this out. The pro-price-caps argument however is a clever one. It rests on the notion that there is no ""effective competition"" in the California energy market. According to one of the 10 pro-price-cap economists, Paul Joskow at MIT, the energy market in California is characterized by inelastic demand and very, very tight supplies, which conspire to produce, at certain times, prices above those that would have obtained under competitive conditions. Mr. Joskow examined the California energy market during the summer of 2000, looking at market fundamentals (the broad forces determining supply and demand); he found that 25% to 30% of the wholesale prices of electricity during June, July and August cannot be explained by market fundamentals and should be attributed to market imperfections. As an argument for price caps, this is hardly overwhelming. Especially since there are several perfectly respectable and compelling reasons to look no further than market fundamentals. Such as the fact that the price of the most important input for almost half the electricity generated in California, natural gas, has been rising over the past year. Such as the fact that natural gas pipelines are filled to capacity, thus bidding up the price to transmit. Such as the fact that the worst drought in the Northwest in 60 years has reduced the amount of hydroelectric power in the market, putting even more demands on natural gas generation. Such as the fact that imports into the state, which were running 20% and up to 25% during peak usage, have declined. And the fact that the price of tradable permits for NOx emissions -- which must be held by plants generating electricity -- has skyrocketed. Not least the fact that demand in California during the past several years, unfettered by rate increases, has zoomed dramatically. At any rate, electric power is increasingly expensive all over the country; indeed, California's neighbors, the states of Washington, Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Montana, have had to bump up utility rates 30% to 50%. So where is the tablet of stone saying that California, with its especially restrictive environmental regulations, should be any different? The bad news for California is that, poor dears, it can't be different. Market fundamentals, like supply and demand, rule. But that's also the good news. High wholesale prices (and necessary profits) have done their job; they have brought forth a number of suppliers, in the form of more than a dozen plans for significant new generating plants; in fact, plans have even been announced to build more natural gas transmission pipelines. Too, demand has started to abate; peak demand on a monthly basis has fallen 4% to 9% from last year, doubtless a response to a ""temporary"" 10% rate hike in January and the California Public Utilities Commission's decision in March to finally really, really raise rates by as much as 50% on average. (The details of that plan were announced in May and rate increases will show up on this month's bills.) So California's blame-shifting pols can point fingers til the state freezes over. The market is working, and imposing price caps would not only interrupt that process, but would be unnecessary. Of course, there is a painful lag between the market signals of high prices due to shortages and the market remedies of increased supply and lower demand. And California will probably feel lots of that pain this summer in the form of continued high prices and blackouts. But, in the long run, the market will be successful in creating new supply and lower prices. Unfortunately California's energy glut will probably come too late to avoid a siege of political spinning and demagoguery. Ultimately we have to hope Californians will understand it is their politics that has served them poorly. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Attached, please find the ""West Desk Organizational Chart"".  Please note, this is chart is for ""internal use"" ONLY! gngr 713-853-7751 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 05/22/2001 04:22 PM 
Ginger--Please forward to the Rick's group. Entire East Power Group org. chart. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate the attached briefs to the Government Affairs group as an FYI.  These are Enron's briefs filed in the Supreme Court case regarding FERC's Order No. 888 open access proceeding. Thanks Sarah 
and electric service standards 
Please see message from Kerry Stroup below. 
and electric service standards The Ohio Commission has recently adopted several sets of administrative rules required by the state's electric restructuring law.  Rules have been issued specifiying certification requirements and procedures, reporting requirements for the Commission's monitoring of the retail marketplace, alternative dispute resolution, non-competitive electric service standards, and competitive retail electric service standards.  A document follows, summarizing some of the major highlights of the adopted rules.  As promulgated, the rules regarding certification and market monitoring are not overly burdensome.  The competitive electric service standards are a mixed bag, e.g. imposing significant duties regarding contract disclosure and term, while providing for telephonic and Internet enrollment. Please direct any questions regarding the rules to me. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
Please see below. 
Please forward to entire group- This is an example of an outstanding memo that conveys critical information to our commercial counterparts- to the point and very relevant-- it is a model to emulate. 
This is a brief primer to assist you with current policy regarding interconnecting generation plants in the East.  Please forward this to your groups.  Thanks.  Christi Nicolay 37007  EB3108h.  I am available for your federal/FERC regulatory questions and can point you to the correct state/regional regulatory people. When initially deciding where to site a plant, there are several federal regulatory issues to consider: First, you will need to obtain the utility's interconnection policy and a pro forma interconnection agreement from the utility.  For most utilities, you will need to call them to obtain their policy and agreement.  Some utilities have this available on their OASIS computer site or web page.  The OASIS sites have areas that do not require a password, but if the information is not available in that area, you should contact the power trading desk transmission personnel to assist in locating the information.  If a utility says it does not have a policy, you can let me know. The interconnection procedures typically require you to send in a request for the utility to study the interconnection (Typically, app. $10,000).  When you return the money and the request (which is usually an agreement that must be initialled by ENA legal), the project will be placed in the ""queue.""  The queue is usually available on the OASIS.  If the utility does not post the queue, let me know. Many times the procedures require the project to meet ""milestones"" in order to remain in the queue.  If the milestones look unreasonable, let me know. FERC (the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) recently issued an order 
Please see below. gngr 
Please distribute to everyone in group in North America. Thanks. 
Richard, Per our conversation please find attached a brief introduction to Downstream Originations, the crux of our efforts, and a contact list. We continue to benefit from increased contact with your staff, and look forward to working together on more projects. Kindly amend if necessary and distribute to all concerned.  I have confirmed to Ginger that I am available to make a presentation at your June 8/9 meeting as well. Regards, Wendy King X35814 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
FYI 
Could you please forward to the group.  Just an FYI.  Thanks. 
? I thought that this paper might be of interest  given the topic of our upcoming ACE meeting.? It's kind of a primer on bulk  power issues.? I haven't read it, but I know that the author is very well  respected in the field.? ? Matthew - RAPBPBasics.pdf - ATT00019.txt 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
gngr 
Please take a moment to review the attached memo introducing Mike Terraso's Environment, Health & Safety Organization and Environmental Strategies Team. Also attached, is an organizational chart for your use. Thank you. 
gngr 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Please e:mail from Sarah Novosel below. gngr 
Ginger: Would you please forward the attached Congestion Management Comparison chart to everyone in Government Affairs.   This chart was recently prepared for us by Tabors Caramanis. Although the people dealing with wholesale issues will have the most interest in the chart, I believe there are others who are also interested in the congestion management debate. Thanks Sarah 
This e:mail serves as confirmation of the date and time for the meeting mentioned below.  Please see details below. 
Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes would like to schedule a meeting with the following people re:Coordinating Government Affairs activiteis with ENA's business goals: David Delaney John Lavorato Kevin Presto Tim Belden Rodney Malcolm Janet Dietrich Steve Kean Paul Kaufman My guess is that we will have to schedule something for late afternoon because of the trading schedule.   See below and respond to me with any/all of the dates and times that will work. Thursday, August 10 3:00pm-5:00pm Friday, August 11 3:00pm-5:00pm Friday, August 18 3:30pm-5:00pm Thanks and I wait patiently for your responses. gngr 
in SDG&E 
in SDG&E PUC approves rebate for S.D. as legislators urge 'ratepayer rebellion' -- San Diego Union tribune http://www.uniontrib.com/news/metro/20000803-991617-powerwoes.html PUC won't freeze rates -- Sacramento Bee http://www.capitolalert.com/news/capalert08_20000804.html Hundreds Denounce Price of Electricity Packed PUC meeting hears pleas for relief -- SF Chronicle http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/04/M N57802.DTL 
Attached are the presentations from the Government Affairs-The Americas dept. meeting which was held on Friday, December 8.  For those of you who missed the special presentation for Rick, it is attached for your viewing pleasure (see luggage). gngr 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation Please note for your review the following news article which appeared in the August 22, 2000 edition of the San Francisco Chronicle: [Ginger:  please also route/distribute to those whom you deem appropriate. Thanks!] Joseph Alamo Sr. Administrative Assistant Government Affairs - The Americas San Francisco CA ---------------------------------------------------------------------- This article was sent to you by someone who found it on SF Gate. The original article can be found on SFGate.com here: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/22/M N1901.DTL ---------------------------------------------------------------------- August 22, 2000 (SF Chronicle) Partial Electric Rate Freeze OKd for Hard-Hit San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation David Lazarus, Chronicle Staff Writer Responding to calls for action from Gov. Gray Davis, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a limited rate freeze yesterday for electricity users in San Diego, where power bills have skyrocketed in recent months. However, the measure was harshly criticized by San Diego officials and consumer activists as being an insufficient remedy for surging rates resulting from deregulation of the state's electricity market. They are now looking for relief from legislators in Sacramento, who are expected to vote today on a bill that would allow them to sidestep state energy regulators and impose more extensive restrictions on how much San Diegans can be charged for power. ""I'm extremely, extremely disappointed,"" said San Diego County Supervisor Dianne Jacob, who flew up for yesterday's PUC meeting in San Francisco with other local officials. Former San Diego Mayor Maureen O'Connor urged California legislators to scrap the state's electricity deregulation altogether. ""To continue the farce so that the whole state is under this terrorist economic endeavor is just ridiculous,"" she said. O'Connor added that Bay Area ratepayers should be concerned about what will happen when Pacific Gas and Electric Co. lifts a freeze on its own electricity rates, perhaps as soon as next summer. ""We already have the train wreck in San Diego,"" she said. ""It's coming 
approval 
approval Attached below the article is the Resolution 
Please keep in mind, until the FERC responds, there will be no changes to our markets. (See attached file: resolution bid caps august 16.doc) Also FYI: Dow Jones Newswires CalPX To Ask FERC To Reduce Day-of, Day-Ahead Price Cap: Board Caves In To Political Pressure By Jason Leopold LOS ANGELES--The California Power Exchange, the spot market where electricity is bought and sold in the state, approved a measure Wednesday seeking federal authority to impose a $350 per megawatt-hour bid cap on wholesale power prices in its day-of and day-ahead markets. Members of the CalPX's board of governors admitted that the measure was approved as a result of intense political pressure being placed on the board by state lawmakers and Gov. Gray Davis. ""Not approving this is political suicide,"" said CalPX board member Carolyn Keherein, who also serves on the board of governors at the California Independent System Operator. ""We're not changing 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
in SDG&E 
in SDG&E PUC approves rebate for S.D. as legislators urge 'ratepayer rebellion' -- San Diego Union tribune http://www.uniontrib.com/news/metro/20000803-991617-powerwoes.html PUC won't freeze rates -- Sacramento Bee http://www.capitolalert.com/news/capalert08_20000804.html Hundreds Denounce Price of Electricity Packed PUC meeting hears pleas for relief -- SF Chronicle http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/04/M N57802.DTL 
This e:mail serves as confirmation of the date and time for the meeting mentioned below.  Please see details below. 
Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes would like to schedule a meeting with the following people re:Coordinating Government Affairs activiteis with ENA's business goals: David Delaney John Lavorato Kevin Presto Tim Belden Rodney Malcolm Janet Dietrich Steve Kean Paul Kaufman My guess is that we will have to schedule something for late afternoon because of the trading schedule.   See below and respond to me with any/all of the dates and times that will work. Thursday, August 10 3:00pm-5:00pm Friday, August 11 3:00pm-5:00pm Friday, August 18 3:30pm-5:00pm Thanks and I wait patiently for your responses. gngr 
Please e:mail from Sarah Novosel below. gngr 
Ginger: Would you please forward the attached Congestion Management Comparison chart to everyone in Government Affairs.   This chart was recently prepared for us by Tabors Caramanis. Although the people dealing with wholesale issues will have the most interest in the chart, I believe there are others who are also interested in the congestion management debate. Thanks Sarah 
Please take a moment to review the attached memo introducing Mike Terraso's Environment, Health & Safety Organization and Environmental Strategies Team. Also attached, is an organizational chart for your use. Thank you. 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
FYI 
Could you please forward to the group.  Just an FYI.  Thanks. 
? I thought that this paper might be of interest  given the topic of our upcoming ACE meeting.? It's kind of a primer on bulk  power issues.? I haven't read it, but I know that the author is very well  respected in the field.? ? Matthew - RAPBPBasics.pdf - ATT00019.txt 
Please see below. gngr 
Please distribute to everyone in group in North America. Thanks. 
Richard, Per our conversation please find attached a brief introduction to Downstream Originations, the crux of our efforts, and a contact list. We continue to benefit from increased contact with your staff, and look forward to working together on more projects. Kindly amend if necessary and distribute to all concerned.  I have confirmed to Ginger that I am available to make a presentation at your June 8/9 meeting as well. Regards, Wendy King X35814 
Please see below. 
Please forward to entire group- This is an example of an outstanding memo that conveys critical information to our commercial counterparts- to the point and very relevant-- it is a model to emulate. 
This is a brief primer to assist you with current policy regarding interconnecting generation plants in the East.  Please forward this to your groups.  Thanks.  Christi Nicolay 37007  EB3108h.  I am available for your federal/FERC regulatory questions and can point you to the correct state/regional regulatory people. When initially deciding where to site a plant, there are several federal regulatory issues to consider: First, you will need to obtain the utility's interconnection policy and a pro forma interconnection agreement from the utility.  For most utilities, you will need to call them to obtain their policy and agreement.  Some utilities have this available on their OASIS computer site or web page.  The OASIS sites have areas that do not require a password, but if the information is not available in that area, you should contact the power trading desk transmission personnel to assist in locating the information.  If a utility says it does not have a policy, you can let me know. The interconnection procedures typically require you to send in a request for the utility to study the interconnection (Typically, app. $10,000).  When you return the money and the request (which is usually an agreement that must be initialled by ENA legal), the project will be placed in the ""queue.""  The queue is usually available on the OASIS.  If the utility does not post the queue, let me know. Many times the procedures require the project to meet ""milestones"" in order to remain in the queue.  If the milestones look unreasonable, let me know. FERC (the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) recently issued an order 
and electric service standards 
Please see message from Kerry Stroup below. 
and electric service standards The Ohio Commission has recently adopted several sets of administrative rules required by the state's electric restructuring law.  Rules have been issued specifiying certification requirements and procedures, reporting requirements for the Commission's monitoring of the retail marketplace, alternative dispute resolution, non-competitive electric service standards, and competitive retail electric service standards.  A document follows, summarizing some of the major highlights of the adopted rules.  As promulgated, the rules regarding certification and market monitoring are not overly burdensome.  The competitive electric service standards are a mixed bag, e.g. imposing significant duties regarding contract disclosure and term, while providing for telephonic and Internet enrollment. Please direct any questions regarding the rules to me. 
Ginger - Attached are Enron's finalized comments on the Barton bill.  Would you please forward to all the folks in Rick's group and include Steve Kean? Many thanks. 
Attached is a copy of S. 2098, the ""Electric Power Market Competition and Reliability Act"" sponsored by Senator Murkowski. Ginger - would you please forward to the folks in Rick's group?  Thanks. 
The Woodlands, TX here we come!!!!!!  I hope everyone is ready for the next Government Affairs - The Americas department meeting.  The meeting is scheduled for Thursday, March 30 at 9:00am and should conclude by 4:00pm. For those staying over night, I will be putting a rooming list together and will need to know your plans for attending this meeting by, Friday, March 3. I know this is somewhat short notice but I'd like to get this finalized sooner, rather than later, so your co-operation in this matter will be greatly appreciated.  The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Guest Fax# 281-364-6274 The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport.  The shuttle service operates every hour on the hour from 6:00am - 10:00pm.   Please let me know what your travel arrangements are and I will forward it to the transportation department.  Once I have forwarded all of the transportation requests to them, any changes that need to be made will need to be made directly with the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. Attached is a draft agenda for the meeting (Pamela Lesh and Lance Schuler, please note the time of your presentations.  Also, please let me know what your audio visual needs will be and I will make sure it is available). Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr 
Please let me know if the time below will work on your calendars for the above mentioned meeting. Monday, February 28, 8-9:30am cst/9:00-10:30am est/or 2-3:30pm London Please respond at your earliest convenience. Helen Rizzo * - Rick would like John to attend if these times will work into his schedule. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Enron Energy Services Phone No: 713 853-7751 
Rick would like to hold a conference call regarding the above subject.  In checking with Rick's, Steve's & Mark Schroeders schedules the times below would work best for their calendars and Thursday the 24th is the date with the most possibilities.  Please let me know if any and all of these times would work for you to attend.  Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Thursday, February 24 Anytime after 11:00am cst/12:00pm est/4:00pm London 
You have received a new IS&S request for richard shapiro.  Please review the request and make any necessary changes.  If you approve the access, please click the Approve button at the top of the request form and EES Security will receive notification.  You may click the link at the end of this message to view the request document. 
We recently concluded an exercise to identify the top =01&ten=018 objective= s for=20 U.S./Canada Government Affairs for 2000, which I presented to the group at= =20 the December 16 staff meeting.  Our success in achieving these objectives= =20 will define the group=01,s success in the New Year. Two of our top three objectives involve providing support to the Risk=20 Management group in EES.  Number 3 and Number 2 (one of the number 2=01,s) = are,=20 respectively, ? Ensure that PG&E=01,s generation-related stranded cost is =01&rolled off= =018 no=20 later than September 30, 2000 and generally protect and inform EES curves ? Understand rules/tariffs/outcomes better than anyone else and convert to= =20 information valuable to business units As a general matter, it is imperative that we continue to assure ourselves= =20 that our everyday efforts are focused on achieving the objectives that are = so=20 critical to our success.  The way the group provides support to EES Risk=20 Management, and in turn achieves the objectives noted above, is one area=20 where there is potential to improve performance with a refocusing of effort= s. Toward this end, I am asking that these individuals take on the=20 responsibility, for their respective regional group, of being a point of=20 contact for EES Risk Management: Mona Petrochko, Western Region  Kate Wagner, South Central/Southeast Region Becky Merola, Great Lakes/Midwest Region Frank Rishe, Mid Atlantic/New=20 York/New England Region Mona, Becky, Kate and Frank will work with individuals on the EES pricing= =20 desk to improve the flow of information necessary for timely, accurate=20 utility rate curves and help EES develop strategies to improve the economic= s=20 of existing outsource deals.  I expect this activity will take a significan= t=20 portion of their time.  They will coordinate their efforts with Harry=20 Kingerski and Pat Keene who will continue to provide a centralized support = to=20 EES Risk Management from Houston. I recognize that many of you are called on from time to time to provide oth= er=20 types of support to EES, for sales calls, licensing requirements,=20 environmental issues, legal support, and the like.  This change in no way= =20 affects these other activities and you should continue to pursue those=20 efforts. =20 As a final note, I invite all of you to identify and bring to me ways we ca= n=20 improve our chances of success in meeting any of our Year 2000 objectives. = I=20 am not interested in change just for its own sake but will certainly consid= er=20 doing things differently if our likelihood of success can be improved.=20 
Msg. from Rick Shapiro I know how eagerly everyone is awaiting the formation of the Resource Allocation Working group*.  Below is a brief description of the group's purpose and initial steps we will be taking.  I want to thank everyone in advance for what I know will be a successful effort. What this group is about:       Identifying best practices within Public Affairs for prioritization of efforts and allocation of resources and documenting the best practices for implementation as soon as possible throughout Public Affairs. How we're going to do it:  Quickly and efficiently. Why we're doing this:  Because we have finite human and financial resources.... because we have an obligation to direct those finite resources to their highest and best use. When we're going to start this process:  Initial meeting in Houston, January 7, 2000 from 8:00am - 11:00am (call in participation is perfectly acceptable). What's required for initial meeting:  A one page or less description of how your group prioritizes its efforts; how both human and financial resources are allocated, and how all of this fits within your budgeting process (should be distributed to all group members two (2) days prior to meeting). Finally:  I am attaching material that my group has used over the last year to implement a resource allocation/issue priortization process.  I will provide a more detailed explanation at the initial meeting.  Please feel free to call me if you have any questions before then. *  You've either been nominated or selected, or volunteered for this working group.  Congratulations. Copy of E:mail sent on 12/15/99 Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. Copy of E:Mail Sent on 10/19/99 Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> Copy of E:mail sent on 8/25/99 Upon further reflection after the recent staff meeting, I have made the determination that any and allengagements of outside resources, e.g., outside counsel & consultants, public relations firms, etc... must be approved through the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process.  Accordingly, the $2500 trigger that had been in place is no longer.  To ensure that the process works in a more timely manner, I am creating weekly RCR meetings (Harry, Jim & myself) at which all pending RCR's will be acted on.  I will deal with emergency RCR's as they may arise between the weekly meetings. Bottom line, the RCR process is of enormous value to the group as it helps to document that we are properly focusing the company's resources in the places where it is of most value.  I firmly believe that whatever minor inconveniences this change will entail, they are minor in relationship to ensuring the success and credibility of the RCR process. Memo sent on 3/18/99 
Rick asked that I get the US/Canada Goverment Affairs ""Working Group"" list to everyone, so here it is! gngr 
Please see forwarded attachments from Jeff Brown. Thanks & Happy Holidays!!!!!! gngr 
Ginger - Please forward to Rick's group.  Thanks - Jeff The attached files include:  (1) a detailed schedule of activities over the next six months  (2)  achievements to date and (3)  a directory of the Advisory Committee. 
=?ANSI_X3.4-1968?Q?orities,_RCR=01,s_&_Legal_Agreements?= 
Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. 
Please see below information on the West Virginia Settlement from Janine Migden. 
Thom and I have just completed negotiations in West Virginia involving APS, AEP and other stakeholders. The settlement, being filed today is a compromise on all the issues and is the result of negotiations.  Enron was the only marketer involved in the process.  While we weighed in all the issues, there are a number of items that but for our persistence would not have been included in the final agreement.  These items include the following: 1.  Native load language 2.  Competitive metering and billing for industrial and large commercials as of day one, with other customers following no later than within the next four years. 3.  Addition of competitive bidding for default service at end of 5 years. 4.  Change from functional separation to a requirement to corporately separate as soon as possible but no later than within the next five years. 5.  Strong codes of conduct that form the base for more detailed rulemaking. (A special thanks to Lara Leibman for her assistance). Below is a summary of the entire settlement: 1.  All customers can exercise choice beginning January 1, 2001. 2.  All utilities including IOU's, munies and coops can opt in.  APS has committed to opt in whereas AEP is not because it did not get any stranded cost and it also did not get a guarantee of full recovery of all costs resulting from the environmental lawsuits against them irrespective of their financial condition. 3.  Competitive metering and billing as described above. 4.  Generation is deregulated. 5.  PSC continues jurisdiction over implemention, rate unbundling, reliability, codes of conduct, supplier licensing, construction of transmission lines and eminent domain authority. 6.  Native load language - Requires utilities to provide service to affiliated and unaffiliated suppliers only under the applicable distribution tariffs and proformatransmission tariffs. 7.  RTO's - Each utility must join a FERC approved RTO or its equivlent by no later than 1/1/03;  best efforts requirement to eliminate pancaking by 1/1/05 if IOU's are in separate RTO's. 8.  Competitive bidding process for  default service customers at end of year 5 for remainder of transition period. 9.  Rate unbundling requirement 10. Rates capped for first 4 years with any FERC change in transmission being applied as an offset to distribution. Rates continue to be regulated through the 10th year with the rate gradually increasing during the second six years for the residential and small commercial customers.  For the large commercial and industrial customers, the rate regulation ends 12/31/07. 11.  A rate stabilization deferral fund is created to facilitate the transition to competition in years 11, 12 and 13, under which APS must contribute $56.75 million and AEP must contribute $81 million to be used as an offset to the prices paid by small residential and commercial default customers. 12.  Large commercial and industrial customers receive for the first 4 years, rate decreases in an amount to be determined by the Commission for AEP customers and 3% for APS customers.  The rate decrease is allocated to distribution. 13.  No stranded costs (either generating or regulatory assets) for AEP or APS, however APS gets a ten year PURPA surcharge starting at 2.6 mills per kwh in year one and declining to .75 mills per kwh in the last two years. 14.  Usual licensing requirements.  (AEP fought for the right to have a second tier of licensing where they would have the ability to certify marketers but we defeated that). 15. Corporate separation and codes of conduct as described above. 16. Consumer protection and education requirements typically found in other plans. 17. Low income protection provisions providing a .2 mil surcharge with the minimum being $.40 and the maximum being $300. 18. Utility worker protection plan. Below for your information is the plan. At this point the plan goes to the PSC for approval and then on to the legislature for a resoulution approving the PSC order.  We expect that AEP and labor will oppose it, so it will be a close call. Janine 
Forwarding info. below per the request of Christi Nicolay. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to Rick's group in North America, Canada and PR.  Thanks. 
Competition... - CERA Alert 
See msg. from Margaret Carson. gngr 713-853-7751 
Competition... - CERA Alert Ginger, Please send this to all govt affairs people  as it has  some very good insights into State by State initiatives.  Thanks,   Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert Some  good insight  here..Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Wed, November 29, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: Limited Chances to Play Won't Bench the Competition... Author: Biehl, Behrens E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Retail Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1430 , Alternative URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ref/alt/112900_19/ref_alt_112900_19_ab.html ********************************************************* RETAIL MARKTERS SEE OPPORTUNITY IN NONTRADITIONAL WAYS TO GROW CUSTOMER BASE With a tight supply-demand balance for natural gas and power in most US regions, CERA sees another difficult year ahead for retail marketers. * Nontraditional means of acquiring customer bases may offer a better opportunity for retail marketers to build market share in 2001 in order to be better positioned when more attractive retail market opportunities open in 2002. * Competitive retail suppliers are looking closely at supplying the regulated customer base (through standard offer or default service) and municipal aggregation to build customer base. Movements by regulators to reset prices below market standard offers for power are improving market conditions in several US Northeast states. **end** Follow URL for complete Monthly Briefing. ********************************************************* Come Shoot the Rapids with us at CERAWeek2001, ""Shooting the Rapids: Strategies and Risks for the Energy Future"" in Houston, February 12-16, 2001!  For more information and to register, please visit http://www.cera.com/ceraweek/ ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Please see e:mail from Nancy Hetrick below. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, would you please distribute this e-mail to everyone in Government Affairs.  Thanks. As you all know, Enron has been actively participating in an industry-wide collaborative effort, working to develop recommended Uniform Business Practices (UBP) for Retail Energy Markets.  This effort was in direct response to the Coalition for Uniform Business Rules (CUBR) report, which was published in September 1999.  THE UBP released Volume 1 of a two-volume final report on November 22, 2000.   Volume 1 includes recommend business practices for the following topics:  Customer Information, Customer Enrollment & Switching, Billing & Payment Processing, Exhibit - Billing Services Agreement, Load Profiling, Supplier Licensing, Market Participant Interaction( MPI):  Governing Documents and Performance Standards, Exhibit - Outline for Master Service Agreement, Disputes Between Utility and the Supplier, Customer Inquiries, Exhibit - Customer Account Maintenance and Glossary.  Also included in the document is an Introduction and a Preface. We would like to promote the use of this UBP report as a key item to be included in Enron's advocacy efforts for state restructuring legislation and commission implementation proceedings.  This report can be downloaded and printed from the following website:  http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/index.htm .  If you would prefer to receive a printed copy of this report, please e-mail me with your request and we will make the necessary arrangments for the report to be printed and distributed. Volume 2 which will address unbundled electricity metering will be published by year-end 2000.  I will let you know when this portion of the report is available. Also, please feel free to contact me if you have any questions regarding this report or if you would like assistance in promoting the use of the UBP report within the various states.  Vinio Floris, who has recently joined our group, will also be working with me to promote the use of this report.  Barbara Hueter is also devoting time to this project by participating with other 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Robin and Gia became the proud parents of Sophia Abigail on Monday, December 11, at 9:50 am.  She weighed 9 and 1/2 pounds and is 21 inches long.  Robin and Sophia are both doing well, as is Gia, although he reports being a bit 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
FYI - see e:mail below from Sarah Novosel. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate this summary to everyone in government affairs. = =20 The summary is similar to the summary Christi sent to you on Friday on FERC= =20 Staff's report on the midwest and southeast regions. Thanks Ginger Sarah 
Attached is a summary of FERC Staff=01,s November 1, 2000 report on its=20 investigation of the Northeast region.  The report is very encouraging=20 because it is comprehensive and recommends many of the changes and solution= s=20 that Enron has been advocating for years.  The report is also encouraging= =20 because it indicates a significant level of understanding of the northeast= =20 markets (and the problems in these markets) by the FERC people who worked o= n=20 this report.  Because this is only a brief summary, the entire report=20 (particularly sections 4 and 5) should be read in detail.  A copy of the=20 report is attached. Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah =20 
Systems 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 11/10/2000 03:22 PM 
Systems Please forward this to Rick's group.  Thanks. Please note that these FERC staff reports contain some potentially helpful information that can be used at the state PUC level, including information on the increase in generation in the Midwest that market participants attribute to lack of price caps following the summer 1998 price spikes; better preparation for summer 2000 through the use of forward contracts and transmission problems that may have resulted in keeping cheaper power from particular markets. On 11/1/00, FERC Staff issued reports on its Investigation of Bulk Power Markets in the Eastern Interconnection.  These reports were the result of a Commission order earlier this summer.  Enron's Federal regulatory staff (Christi, Charles Yeung, and Sarah Novosel) provided a great deal of information for this investigation and Joe Hartsoe and Donna Fulton discussed many of the problems with the grid with the new head of Staff, Scott Miller (who recently joined FERC from PG&E Gen).    While the Commission is under no obligation to take any of Staff's recommendations, the Commission typically looks to Staff for guidance on transmission and market issues.  Importantly, Staff concludes that the Commission should consider these options for the Southeast and Midwest -- all of which Enron has been asking FERC to implement for several years: Reduce the advantages of network service over point to point service by requiring that native load be served under the same tariff as other transmission services to eliminate the current incentives that VIUs have to favor their native load through the calculation of ATC and handling of interconnection requests. While the Staff Hotline is used productively, the Commission can direct Staff to conduct formal investigations into entities that have a pattern of complaints. The Commission could require TPs to submit tariff provisions containing a pro forma interconnection process specific to interconnection, rather than simply relying on the Tennessee Power order that utilizes the OATT timelines and procedures. Require TPs to retain real-time transmission data on market functions pertaining to daily load, internal generation to meet that load, and imports and exports. RTOs should submit the basis and methods for calculating ATC and TTC, as well as standardized criteria for curtailment.  In addition, since even such standardized criteria might not ""get to the root of the problem"" -- that control area still control generation -- the Commission could require that each RTO set a date certain by which it will create one control area. Regardless of the implementation of these two options, the Commission could standardize ATC and TTC methodology. Staff finds that while electricity is a commodity with market characteristics similar to many other commodities, it is still viewed as ""different,"" with a reaction of price caps.  Staff encourages that basic decisions about the regulatory model be made in order to complete the transition from a traditional cost-of-service model to a model that uses markets to price the commodity and services. DETAILS  (Also, the reports contain good summaries of the generation, transmission, state retail, federal reg. and other issues for the region): Midwest:  The Midwest is dominated by vertically integrated Transmission Providers (""TPs"") that control transmission, generation and load.  ""As such, they have weak economic incentives to provide access to transmission service to third-parties and strong incentives to favor their own services.""  Staff received numerous complaints; however, due to the lack of information available from TPs, Staff cannot conclude whether these are isolated incidents or wide-spread.  At the very least, the complaints indicate a lack of confidence in the bulk power market and the ability of market participants to rely on transmission access, thus harming the liquidity of the market. TLRs are the most important transmission issue in the Midwest, with an ""enormous"" increase in 2000.  The region showed a decline in peak load from 1999 to 2000 and a growth in new generation since the 1998 price spikes. Even though there was an increase in generation and mild weather with virtually no price spikes, TLRs climbed to record numbers.  The TLRs were highly concentrated:  only 5 flowgates account for 41% of ECAR TLRs and another 5 flowgates in MAIN account for 42% in that region.  Notably, even though the NERC procedures for Level 3 TLRs mandate transaction curtailment, 78 of the 191 TLRs in the Midwest do not show any curtailment amount.  The total amount of relief that these curtailments are intended to produce are not posted.  Staff notes that TLR rules are established by NERC, whose procedures are voluntary and not enforced by penalties.  While the Commission has required certain NERC standards and procedures to be placed in Open Access Transmission Tariffs (""OATT"") where the Commission has the power to enforce provisions under the Federal Power Act, in practice the Commission has generally deferred to NERC on transmission reliability questions, including the propriety of TLRs. TLRs inhibit optimal functioning of the transmission system and market because load is not served by the least cost supplier.  TLR procedure is an inefficient instrument in mitigating constraints -- curtailment by fiat.  In addition, the NERC IDC can result in inappropriate curtailments or increased loading on the affected flowgate.  The impact could be mitigated by one control area per RTO. Staff notes that the Midwest state commissions did not petition FERC for price caps following the 1998 price spikes.  Some market participants believe that the absence of price spikes is the single reason that NUG construction increased in the Midwest. Market participants must keep track of, and follow, a plethora of information in order to make energy deals, submit reservations and provide schedules for service.  Staff received many complaints about barriers to transmission access, including TLR curtailments and a lack of standardized information and protocols, particularly for ATC and interconnection requests, and discriminatory conduct.  Unbelievably, key data was unavailable to Staff, such coincident peak load data, system-wide snap shots for days when TLRs were called, and import/export data.  This lack of data creates a market inefficiency, because neither market participants nor regulators can fully analyze market conditions in real time.  As such, the market is risk adverse, eschewing long-term deals for short-term transactions.  Staff also noted that because the Security Coordinators often work for the IOU, there is a mixed incentive to enforce reliability on the grid and maximize profit for the IOU.  (Staff cites Richard Tabors' paper, ""Transmission Markets, Stretching the Rules for Fun and Profit."") Staff cites the lack of information on OASIS or on the NERC web site, particularly about real time TLRs and curtailments.  Examples were provided to Staff of transmission refusals when there were no TLRs posted and improper implementation of TLRs causing substantial financial loss. The currently proposed Midwest RTOs may mitigate some problems; however, all three retain existing control areas with the favortism for generation and native load.  These incentives will continue to remain until the RTO exercises complete autonomy over transmission control and security coordinator functions.  Staff notes that the Midwest is a balkanized region of 61 control areas with no uniform method for calculating ATC and CBM.  The result is that ATCs can be different on 2 different sides of an interface. Staff notes examples in inaccurate ATCs and states that Staff's own ATC audit this summer was consistent with market participant complaints.  Staff is weighing follow-up options.  The result of these problems is a lack of liquidity. Staff next noted the problems with unfiled ""business practices,"" especially on the next hour market.  Staff's audit of OASIS sites revealed several areas of non-compliance. Information transparency is necessary for a market to function efficiently, with equal and timely access to data, including ATC, CBM, TRM, and load flow input data.  TPs have incentives to resist efforts to make this information transparent because of native load.  This incentive will still exist under RTOs if utilities are allowed to calculate their own ATC.  ***  ""As a consequence, the Commission may wish to eliminate the native load exemption and have all transactions under the same tariff.""  ***  The Commission could benefit by having access to existing transmission data and should require the TPs to retain data, including current real-time network status. Interconnection Issues:  IPPs need to be compensated for VAR support.  Also, Staff cites a number of Hotline complaints about TPs seeking large deposits or failing to complete System Impact Studies timely.  One solution is to have the RTO handle this function to eliminate the disincentive the utilities have against IPPs.  The current practice of requiring IPPs to deal with a wide variety of procedures inhibits the free flow of transactions within the region. Network service has inherent advantages over point-to-point, citing the 
These talking points are to help you address questions about the Front Line program that took place last night. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beyond the two excellent editorials in today's WSJ (attached) the following should be the key messages: 1.  The show was an aimless wander through the well-worn territory of blame-game politics, with a healthy dose of fear mongering thrown in. 2.  It should not surprise anyone that two Berkley-based journalists, working in conjunction with the New York Times, would ignore Econ 101 and suggest that the solution for California's energy crisis is to subject the entire nation to Roosevelt era New Deal regulations.  Such pinings have been abandoned over the past 65 years, but if the New York Times wants to stake out that position ... fine.  It will probably help sharpen the debate and set up a clear victory for the market when supply comes onstream and prices moderate.  (Much sooner than the decades of legal wrangling to return to New Deal regulations.) 3.  The show completely ignored the failings of California's political and regulatory leadership to moderate or even eliminate the crisis when they had a chance. 4.  Of the electricity consumed in California, less than 15 percent is generated by companies headquartered in Texas.  More than 50 percent of the electricity in California is generated by municipal entities that have been charging the same high prices as the Texas ""pirates.""  These good pirates include the Bonneville Power Administration, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Government of British Columbia, and the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. Business World: California's Ship of Fools By Holman W. Jenkins Jr. 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A27 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Lamenting the politician's lot in ""Profiles in Courage,"" John F. Kennedy wrote that ""In no other occupation is it expected that a man will sacrifice honors, prestige and his chosen career on a single issue."" Of course, no politician would last long if he didn't blow with the wind nine times out of 10. But on the tenth occasion even California has the right to expect some courage. We don't know what happens when an advanced economy like California's suffers day after day of blackouts. We may be about to find out. Modern office architecture becomes uninhabitable without air-conditioning and elevators. Old people and asthmatics may die in the heat. So may drivers at unlit traffic crossings. Steps could still be taken to lessen the blackouts, but voters wouldn't know the difference, and it's so much easier to cast blame. Gov. Gray Davis prates about a ""war with Texas."" And who knows what secret failures as a human being led Bill Lockyer, the attorney general, to threaten Enron's Ken Lay with homosexual rape in the California prison system. California has found itself singularly lacking in heroes in its hour of crisis. Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Davis harp on price, but the true problem is the unavailability of power at any price to meet the demand that exists under the current structure of retail rates. Both must know the solution they noisily advocate, federal price controls slapped across Western electricity markets, wouldn't bring power into existence to close the gap. Their proposal would simply saddle the feds with the dirty job of apportioning blackouts from California's mistakes across half a dozen other states. In California itself, municipal utilities in Santa Clara, Palo Alto and other towns have already announced they won't participate in rolling blackouts. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power certainly isn't volunteering. Why should voters in other states? Why not just cut the lines and let California monopolize the darkness? A state review board in Washington has already vetoed a proposed plant rather than suffer local pollution for power destined for California. Mr. Davis knows this; he knows price controls would create a new problem without solving the shortages. Meanwhile, the specter nobody wants to talk about is the state of California itself headed for bankruptcy if it continues to be willing to pay any price to satisfy the demand of consumers shielded from the true cost of power. Mr. Davis's version of the Big Lie is that Texas is to blame. Texas companies account for just 12% of California's supply, having bought 7,000 of the 20,000 megawatts that local utilities were forced to sell under ""deregulation."" Being in the right place at the right time has always been profitable, but any windfall has been spread widely among suppliers of gas, pipeline capacity, storage and ancillary services. Take Enron: Its revenues quadrupled in the past year, but so did its costs, and profits are up only 31%. A leaked California memo names as two of the biggest ""gougers"" BC Hydro, owned by Canadian taxpayers, and the U.S. Bonneville Power Administration. Their sin was letting their reservoirs fill up overnight while meeting local needs with spot-market power, so they could sell their own production for higher prices to California during the day. These are precisely efforts that might stop if price controls were imposed across the West, making the shortages worse, probably much worse. Northwestern smelters might be better off reclaiming the cheap hydro they've been passing on to California -- 3,000 megawatts, enough for two million homes. Farmers could resume irrigating. Seattle, Tacoma, Boise and other neighbors have all done what California has failed yet to do, hiking rates to curb demand. Rather than emulate them, Gov. Davis's peacock of an energy czar, David Freeman, babbles about ""public power,"" the answer to a question nobody asked, the solution to a nonexistent problem. Prices of electricity and natural gas for future delivery are already falling as investors race to build new plants and pipelines to meet the state's future needs. Markets foresee the crisis ending without Mr. Freeman's antique New Deal schemes. What's been missing while folks like him ride their hobby horses, though, is the courage to take steps necessary to minimize the suffering this summer. One large source of untapped power is California's own small generators, known as qualifying facilities. Their fee scale is set by the state, but California couldn't even summon the political competence to keep them in business, so 3,000 megawatts sit idle. People have tried to attach all kinds of ideological baggage to the California mess, but we wouldn't be here if water flows in the Columbia River system weren't down 54% from normal. Last summer, California's fossil-fuel generators increased their output by a whopping 62% to make up the shortfall, mostly by running existing plants harder. Yes, there have been flaky prices, partly because, mysteriously, California continues to use a discredited computer program to book a large chunk of its power one hour in advance. But the flaky prices also represent a system pulling out all stops to save California from itself. We said back in December there's only one solution: Jack up rates to stop consumers trying to burn more power than the state can beg, borrow or steal. The only question was when Gov. Davis would find the courage. Hard to believe, but the price hikes his regulators approved in March are still on the drawing board and busily being watered down. Someone should point out to Gov. Davis that the author of ""Profiles in Courage"" wasn't endorsing career suicide but suggesting that politicians must husband their leadership for times when it really counts. Not a few people in public life understand this. Al Gore openly yearned for the day when he could justify the compromises and trimming he's done in his life. But Mr. Davis is perhaps too lost in the dark to understand he is blowing the whole reason to have a political career. What borders on the stupefying, though, is the failure of any other Californian of prominence to step forward and speak truth about the power crisis. By all rights Gov. Davis should be a political leper, yet he actually stands a microscopic chance of being re-elected because of the sheer poverty, in a state of 34 million people, of the Republican opposition. Arnold Schwarzenegger is looking better all the time. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial) California Squeaks By 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A26 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) The California energy crisis is now more than a year old and Governor Gray Davis has done nothing but squeak at it. At first, he attacked out-of-state power generators for being pirates and marauders. But lately he has focused on FERC and President Bush, demanding that the federal government place price caps on the sale of wholesale power. He's even rustled up 10 economists -- including the dad of deregulation, Alfred Kahn -- to support him. Well, as most everybody knows -- including the economists who have come out in favor of them -- price caps don't work. If caps are set too low, (as politics often dictate), existing supply will shrink and demand will grow, making the situation worse. Even ""correctly"" set price caps will discourage additional supply and do nothing to moderate demand. The usual result is an aggravation of shortages and rationing. Indeed, the history of price caps, particularly during the energy crisis in the early 1970s -- when oil prices were capped and lines at gasoline stations were long -- bears this out. The pro-price-caps argument however is a clever one. It rests on the notion that there is no ""effective competition"" in the California energy market. According to one of the 10 pro-price-cap economists, Paul Joskow at MIT, the energy market in California is characterized by inelastic demand and very, very tight supplies, which conspire to produce, at certain times, prices above those that would have obtained under competitive conditions. Mr. Joskow examined the California energy market during the summer of 2000, looking at market fundamentals (the broad forces determining supply and demand); he found that 25% to 30% of the wholesale prices of electricity during June, July and August cannot be explained by market fundamentals and should be attributed to market imperfections. As an argument for price caps, this is hardly overwhelming. Especially since there are several perfectly respectable and compelling reasons to look no further than market fundamentals. Such as the fact that the price of the most important input for almost half the electricity generated in California, natural gas, has been rising over the past year. Such as the fact that natural gas pipelines are filled to capacity, thus bidding up the price to transmit. Such as the fact that the worst drought in the Northwest in 60 years has reduced the amount of hydroelectric power in the market, putting even more demands on natural gas generation. Such as the fact that imports into the state, which were running 20% and up to 25% during peak usage, have declined. And the fact that the price of tradable permits for NOx emissions -- which must be held by plants generating electricity -- has skyrocketed. Not least the fact that demand in California during the past several years, unfettered by rate increases, has zoomed dramatically. At any rate, electric power is increasingly expensive all over the country; indeed, California's neighbors, the states of Washington, Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Montana, have had to bump up utility rates 30% to 50%. So where is the tablet of stone saying that California, with its especially restrictive environmental regulations, should be any different? The bad news for California is that, poor dears, it can't be different. Market fundamentals, like supply and demand, rule. But that's also the good news. High wholesale prices (and necessary profits) have done their job; they have brought forth a number of suppliers, in the form of more than a dozen plans for significant new generating plants; in fact, plans have even been announced to build more natural gas transmission pipelines. Too, demand has started to abate; peak demand on a monthly basis has fallen 4% to 9% from last year, doubtless a response to a ""temporary"" 10% rate hike in January and the California Public Utilities Commission's decision in March to finally really, really raise rates by as much as 50% on average. (The details of that plan were announced in May and rate increases will show up on this month's bills.) So California's blame-shifting pols can point fingers til the state freezes over. The market is working, and imposing price caps would not only interrupt that process, but would be unnecessary. Of course, there is a painful lag between the market signals of high prices due to shortages and the market remedies of increased supply and lower demand. And California will probably feel lots of that pain this summer in the form of continued high prices and blackouts. But, in the long run, the market will be successful in creating new supply and lower prices. Unfortunately California's energy glut will probably come too late to avoid a siege of political spinning and demagoguery. Ultimately we have to hope Californians will understand it is their politics that has served them poorly. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Attached, please find the ""West Desk Organizational Chart"".  Please note, this is chart is for ""internal use"" ONLY! gngr 713-853-7751 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 05/22/2001 04:22 PM 
Ginger--Please forward to the Rick's group. Entire East Power Group org. chart. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate the attached briefs to the Government Affairs group as an FYI.  These are Enron's briefs filed in the Supreme Court case regarding FERC's Order No. 888 open access proceeding. Thanks Sarah 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
Please forward to Gov't Affairs group. Enron North America Corp. 
James D Steffes 11/02/2000 06:13 PM 
Ginger -- Can you please distribute to all of Rick's group. 1. Talking Points 2. FERC Order Summary 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
gngr 
gngr 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Below please find the strategy document that was put together by Jim Steffes at the meeting on Tuesday, September 19. gngr 
Below please find the strategy document that was put together by Jim Steffes at the meeting on Tuesday, September 19. gngr 
gngr 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Please let me know if the time below will work on your calendars for the above mentioned meeting. Monday, February 28, 8-9:30am cst/9:00-10:30am est/or 2-3:30pm London Please respond at your earliest convenience. Helen Rizzo * - Rick would like John to attend if these times will work into his schedule. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Enron Energy Services Phone No: 713 853-7751 
Rick would like to hold a conference call regarding the above subject.  In checking with Rick's, Steve's & Mark Schroeders schedules the times below would work best for their calendars and Thursday the 24th is the date with the most possibilities.  Please let me know if any and all of these times would work for you to attend.  Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Thursday, February 24 Anytime after 11:00am cst/12:00pm est/4:00pm London 
Please forward to Gov't Affairs group. Enron North America Corp. 
Please see below. 
Please forward to entire group- This is an example of an outstanding memo that conveys critical information to our commercial counterparts- to the point and very relevant-- it is a model to emulate. 
This is a brief primer to assist you with current policy regarding interconnecting generation plants in the East.  Please forward this to your groups.  Thanks.  Christi Nicolay 37007  EB3108h.  I am available for your federal/FERC regulatory questions and can point you to the correct state/regional regulatory people. When initially deciding where to site a plant, there are several federal regulatory issues to consider: First, you will need to obtain the utility's interconnection policy and a pro forma interconnection agreement from the utility.  For most utilities, you will need to call them to obtain their policy and agreement.  Some utilities have this available on their OASIS computer site or web page.  The OASIS sites have areas that do not require a password, but if the information is not available in that area, you should contact the power trading desk transmission personnel to assist in locating the information.  If a utility says it does not have a policy, you can let me know. The interconnection procedures typically require you to send in a request for the utility to study the interconnection (Typically, app. $10,000).  When you return the money and the request (which is usually an agreement that must be initialled by ENA legal), the project will be placed in the ""queue.""  The queue is usually available on the OASIS.  If the utility does not post the queue, let me know. Many times the procedures require the project to meet ""milestones"" in order to remain in the queue.  If the milestones look unreasonable, let me know. FERC (the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) recently issued an order 
Please see below. gngr 
Please distribute to everyone in group in North America. Thanks. 
Richard, Per our conversation please find attached a brief introduction to Downstream Originations, the crux of our efforts, and a contact list. We continue to benefit from increased contact with your staff, and look forward to working together on more projects. Kindly amend if necessary and distribute to all concerned.  I have confirmed to Ginger that I am available to make a presentation at your June 8/9 meeting as well. Regards, Wendy King X35814 
and electric service standards 
Please see message from Kerry Stroup below. 
and electric service standards The Ohio Commission has recently adopted several sets of administrative rules required by the state's electric restructuring law.  Rules have been issued specifiying certification requirements and procedures, reporting requirements for the Commission's monitoring of the retail marketplace, alternative dispute resolution, non-competitive electric service standards, and competitive retail electric service standards.  A document follows, summarizing some of the major highlights of the adopted rules.  As promulgated, the rules regarding certification and market monitoring are not overly burdensome.  The competitive electric service standards are a mixed bag, e.g. imposing significant duties regarding contract disclosure and term, while providing for telephonic and Internet enrollment. Please direct any questions regarding the rules to me. 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
Attached are the presentations from the Government Affairs-The Americas dept. meeting which was held on Friday, December 8.  For those of you who missed the special presentation for Rick, it is attached for your viewing pleasure (see luggage). gngr 
approval 
approval Attached below the article is the Resolution 
Please keep in mind, until the FERC responds, there will be no changes to our markets. (See attached file: resolution bid caps august 16.doc) Also FYI: Dow Jones Newswires CalPX To Ask FERC To Reduce Day-of, Day-Ahead Price Cap: Board Caves In To Political Pressure By Jason Leopold LOS ANGELES--The California Power Exchange, the spot market where electricity is bought and sold in the state, approved a measure Wednesday seeking federal authority to impose a $350 per megawatt-hour bid cap on wholesale power prices in its day-of and day-ahead markets. Members of the CalPX's board of governors admitted that the measure was approved as a result of intense political pressure being placed on the board by state lawmakers and Gov. Gray Davis. ""Not approving this is political suicide,"" said CalPX board member Carolyn Keherein, who also serves on the board of governors at the California Independent System Operator. ""We're not changing 
The Woodlands, TX here we come!!!!!!  I hope everyone is ready for the next Government Affairs - The Americas department meeting.  The meeting is scheduled for Thursday, March 30 at 9:00am and should conclude by 4:00pm. For those staying over night, I will be putting a rooming list together and will need to know your plans for attending this meeting by, Friday, March 3. I know this is somewhat short notice but I'd like to get this finalized sooner, rather than later, so your co-operation in this matter will be greatly appreciated.  The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Guest Fax# 281-364-6274 The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport.  The shuttle service operates every hour on the hour from 6:00am - 10:00pm.   Please let me know what your travel arrangements are and I will forward it to the transportation department.  Once I have forwarded all of the transportation requests to them, any changes that need to be made will need to be made directly with the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. Attached is a draft agenda for the meeting (Pamela Lesh and Lance Schuler, please note the time of your presentations.  Also, please let me know what your audio visual needs will be and I will make sure it is available). Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr 
gngr 
Rick asked that I get the US/Canada Goverment Affairs ""Working Group"" list to everyone, so here it is! gngr 
Systems 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 11/10/2000 03:22 PM 
Systems Please forward this to Rick's group.  Thanks. Please note that these FERC staff reports contain some potentially helpful information that can be used at the state PUC level, including information on the increase in generation in the Midwest that market participants attribute to lack of price caps following the summer 1998 price spikes; better preparation for summer 2000 through the use of forward contracts and transmission problems that may have resulted in keeping cheaper power from particular markets. On 11/1/00, FERC Staff issued reports on its Investigation of Bulk Power Markets in the Eastern Interconnection.  These reports were the result of a Commission order earlier this summer.  Enron's Federal regulatory staff (Christi, Charles Yeung, and Sarah Novosel) provided a great deal of information for this investigation and Joe Hartsoe and Donna Fulton discussed many of the problems with the grid with the new head of Staff, Scott Miller (who recently joined FERC from PG&E Gen).    While the Commission is under no obligation to take any of Staff's recommendations, the Commission typically looks to Staff for guidance on transmission and market issues.  Importantly, Staff concludes that the Commission should consider these options for the Southeast and Midwest -- all of which Enron has been asking FERC to implement for several years: Reduce the advantages of network service over point to point service by requiring that native load be served under the same tariff as other transmission services to eliminate the current incentives that VIUs have to favor their native load through the calculation of ATC and handling of interconnection requests. While the Staff Hotline is used productively, the Commission can direct Staff to conduct formal investigations into entities that have a pattern of complaints. The Commission could require TPs to submit tariff provisions containing a pro forma interconnection process specific to interconnection, rather than simply relying on the Tennessee Power order that utilizes the OATT timelines and procedures. Require TPs to retain real-time transmission data on market functions pertaining to daily load, internal generation to meet that load, and imports and exports. RTOs should submit the basis and methods for calculating ATC and TTC, as well as standardized criteria for curtailment.  In addition, since even such standardized criteria might not ""get to the root of the problem"" -- that control area still control generation -- the Commission could require that each RTO set a date certain by which it will create one control area. Regardless of the implementation of these two options, the Commission could standardize ATC and TTC methodology. Staff finds that while electricity is a commodity with market characteristics similar to many other commodities, it is still viewed as ""different,"" with a reaction of price caps.  Staff encourages that basic decisions about the regulatory model be made in order to complete the transition from a traditional cost-of-service model to a model that uses markets to price the commodity and services. DETAILS  (Also, the reports contain good summaries of the generation, transmission, state retail, federal reg. and other issues for the region): Midwest:  The Midwest is dominated by vertically integrated Transmission Providers (""TPs"") that control transmission, generation and load.  ""As such, they have weak economic incentives to provide access to transmission service to third-parties and strong incentives to favor their own services.""  Staff received numerous complaints; however, due to the lack of information available from TPs, Staff cannot conclude whether these are isolated incidents or wide-spread.  At the very least, the complaints indicate a lack of confidence in the bulk power market and the ability of market participants to rely on transmission access, thus harming the liquidity of the market. TLRs are the most important transmission issue in the Midwest, with an ""enormous"" increase in 2000.  The region showed a decline in peak load from 1999 to 2000 and a growth in new generation since the 1998 price spikes. Even though there was an increase in generation and mild weather with virtually no price spikes, TLRs climbed to record numbers.  The TLRs were highly concentrated:  only 5 flowgates account for 41% of ECAR TLRs and another 5 flowgates in MAIN account for 42% in that region.  Notably, even though the NERC procedures for Level 3 TLRs mandate transaction curtailment, 78 of the 191 TLRs in the Midwest do not show any curtailment amount.  The total amount of relief that these curtailments are intended to produce are not posted.  Staff notes that TLR rules are established by NERC, whose procedures are voluntary and not enforced by penalties.  While the Commission has required certain NERC standards and procedures to be placed in Open Access Transmission Tariffs (""OATT"") where the Commission has the power to enforce provisions under the Federal Power Act, in practice the Commission has generally deferred to NERC on transmission reliability questions, including the propriety of TLRs. TLRs inhibit optimal functioning of the transmission system and market because load is not served by the least cost supplier.  TLR procedure is an inefficient instrument in mitigating constraints -- curtailment by fiat.  In addition, the NERC IDC can result in inappropriate curtailments or increased loading on the affected flowgate.  The impact could be mitigated by one control area per RTO. Staff notes that the Midwest state commissions did not petition FERC for price caps following the 1998 price spikes.  Some market participants believe that the absence of price spikes is the single reason that NUG construction increased in the Midwest. Market participants must keep track of, and follow, a plethora of information in order to make energy deals, submit reservations and provide schedules for service.  Staff received many complaints about barriers to transmission access, including TLR curtailments and a lack of standardized information and protocols, particularly for ATC and interconnection requests, and discriminatory conduct.  Unbelievably, key data was unavailable to Staff, such coincident peak load data, system-wide snap shots for days when TLRs were called, and import/export data.  This lack of data creates a market inefficiency, because neither market participants nor regulators can fully analyze market conditions in real time.  As such, the market is risk adverse, eschewing long-term deals for short-term transactions.  Staff also noted that because the Security Coordinators often work for the IOU, there is a mixed incentive to enforce reliability on the grid and maximize profit for the IOU.  (Staff cites Richard Tabors' paper, ""Transmission Markets, Stretching the Rules for Fun and Profit."") Staff cites the lack of information on OASIS or on the NERC web site, particularly about real time TLRs and curtailments.  Examples were provided to Staff of transmission refusals when there were no TLRs posted and improper implementation of TLRs causing substantial financial loss. The currently proposed Midwest RTOs may mitigate some problems; however, all three retain existing control areas with the favortism for generation and native load.  These incentives will continue to remain until the RTO exercises complete autonomy over transmission control and security coordinator functions.  Staff notes that the Midwest is a balkanized region of 61 control areas with no uniform method for calculating ATC and CBM.  The result is that ATCs can be different on 2 different sides of an interface. Staff notes examples in inaccurate ATCs and states that Staff's own ATC audit this summer was consistent with market participant complaints.  Staff is weighing follow-up options.  The result of these problems is a lack of liquidity. Staff next noted the problems with unfiled ""business practices,"" especially on the next hour market.  Staff's audit of OASIS sites revealed several areas of non-compliance. Information transparency is necessary for a market to function efficiently, with equal and timely access to data, including ATC, CBM, TRM, and load flow input data.  TPs have incentives to resist efforts to make this information transparent because of native load.  This incentive will still exist under RTOs if utilities are allowed to calculate their own ATC.  ***  ""As a consequence, the Commission may wish to eliminate the native load exemption and have all transactions under the same tariff.""  ***  The Commission could benefit by having access to existing transmission data and should require the TPs to retain data, including current real-time network status. Interconnection Issues:  IPPs need to be compensated for VAR support.  Also, Staff cites a number of Hotline complaints about TPs seeking large deposits or failing to complete System Impact Studies timely.  One solution is to have the RTO handle this function to eliminate the disincentive the utilities have against IPPs.  The current practice of requiring IPPs to deal with a wide variety of procedures inhibits the free flow of transactions within the region. Network service has inherent advantages over point-to-point, citing the 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
FYI - see e:mail below from Sarah Novosel. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate this summary to everyone in government affairs. = =20 The summary is similar to the summary Christi sent to you on Friday on FERC= =20 Staff's report on the midwest and southeast regions. Thanks Ginger Sarah 
Attached is a summary of FERC Staff=01,s November 1, 2000 report on its=20 investigation of the Northeast region.  The report is very encouraging=20 because it is comprehensive and recommends many of the changes and solution= s=20 that Enron has been advocating for years.  The report is also encouraging= =20 because it indicates a significant level of understanding of the northeast= =20 markets (and the problems in these markets) by the FERC people who worked o= n=20 this report.  Because this is only a brief summary, the entire report=20 (particularly sections 4 and 5) should be read in detail.  A copy of the=20 report is attached. Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah =20 
Forwarding info. below per the request of Christi Nicolay. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to Rick's group in North America, Canada and PR.  Thanks. 
Msg. from Rick Shapiro I know how eagerly everyone is awaiting the formation of the Resource Allocation Working group*.  Below is a brief description of the group's purpose and initial steps we will be taking.  I want to thank everyone in advance for what I know will be a successful effort. What this group is about:       Identifying best practices within Public Affairs for prioritization of efforts and allocation of resources and documenting the best practices for implementation as soon as possible throughout Public Affairs. How we're going to do it:  Quickly and efficiently. Why we're doing this:  Because we have finite human and financial resources.... because we have an obligation to direct those finite resources to their highest and best use. When we're going to start this process:  Initial meeting in Houston, January 7, 2000 from 8:00am - 11:00am (call in participation is perfectly acceptable). What's required for initial meeting:  A one page or less description of how your group prioritizes its efforts; how both human and financial resources are allocated, and how all of this fits within your budgeting process (should be distributed to all group members two (2) days prior to meeting). Finally:  I am attaching material that my group has used over the last year to implement a resource allocation/issue priortization process.  I will provide a more detailed explanation at the initial meeting.  Please feel free to call me if you have any questions before then. *  You've either been nominated or selected, or volunteered for this working group.  Congratulations. Copy of E:mail sent on 12/15/99 Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. Copy of E:Mail Sent on 10/19/99 Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> Copy of E:mail sent on 8/25/99 Upon further reflection after the recent staff meeting, I have made the determination that any and allengagements of outside resources, e.g., outside counsel & consultants, public relations firms, etc... must be approved through the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process.  Accordingly, the $2500 trigger that had been in place is no longer.  To ensure that the process works in a more timely manner, I am creating weekly RCR meetings (Harry, Jim & myself) at which all pending RCR's will be acted on.  I will deal with emergency RCR's as they may arise between the weekly meetings. Bottom line, the RCR process is of enormous value to the group as it helps to document that we are properly focusing the company's resources in the places where it is of most value.  I firmly believe that whatever minor inconveniences this change will entail, they are minor in relationship to ensuring the success and credibility of the RCR process. Memo sent on 3/18/99 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate the attached briefs to the Government Affairs group as an FYI.  These are Enron's briefs filed in the Supreme Court case regarding FERC's Order No. 888 open access proceeding. Thanks Sarah 
FYI 
Could you please forward to the group.  Just an FYI.  Thanks. 
? I thought that this paper might be of interest  given the topic of our upcoming ACE meeting.? It's kind of a primer on bulk  power issues.? I haven't read it, but I know that the author is very well  respected in the field.? ? Matthew - RAPBPBasics.pdf - ATT00019.txt 
Attached is a copy of S. 2098, the ""Electric Power Market Competition and Reliability Act"" sponsored by Senator Murkowski. Ginger - would you please forward to the folks in Rick's group?  Thanks. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
=?ANSI_X3.4-1968?Q?orities,_RCR=01,s_&_Legal_Agreements?= 
Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. 
Please see forwarded attachments from Jeff Brown. Thanks & Happy Holidays!!!!!! gngr 
Ginger - Please forward to Rick's group.  Thanks - Jeff The attached files include:  (1) a detailed schedule of activities over the next six months  (2)  achievements to date and (3)  a directory of the Advisory Committee. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 05/22/2001 04:22 PM 
Ginger--Please forward to the Rick's group. Entire East Power Group org. chart. 
Please see below information on the West Virginia Settlement from Janine Migden. 
Thom and I have just completed negotiations in West Virginia involving APS, AEP and other stakeholders. The settlement, being filed today is a compromise on all the issues and is the result of negotiations.  Enron was the only marketer involved in the process.  While we weighed in all the issues, there are a number of items that but for our persistence would not have been included in the final agreement.  These items include the following: 1.  Native load language 2.  Competitive metering and billing for industrial and large commercials as of day one, with other customers following no later than within the next four years. 3.  Addition of competitive bidding for default service at end of 5 years. 4.  Change from functional separation to a requirement to corporately separate as soon as possible but no later than within the next five years. 5.  Strong codes of conduct that form the base for more detailed rulemaking. (A special thanks to Lara Leibman for her assistance). Below is a summary of the entire settlement: 1.  All customers can exercise choice beginning January 1, 2001. 2.  All utilities including IOU's, munies and coops can opt in.  APS has committed to opt in whereas AEP is not because it did not get any stranded cost and it also did not get a guarantee of full recovery of all costs resulting from the environmental lawsuits against them irrespective of their financial condition. 3.  Competitive metering and billing as described above. 4.  Generation is deregulated. 5.  PSC continues jurisdiction over implemention, rate unbundling, reliability, codes of conduct, supplier licensing, construction of transmission lines and eminent domain authority. 6.  Native load language - Requires utilities to provide service to affiliated and unaffiliated suppliers only under the applicable distribution tariffs and proformatransmission tariffs. 7.  RTO's - Each utility must join a FERC approved RTO or its equivlent by no later than 1/1/03;  best efforts requirement to eliminate pancaking by 1/1/05 if IOU's are in separate RTO's. 8.  Competitive bidding process for  default service customers at end of year 5 for remainder of transition period. 9.  Rate unbundling requirement 10. Rates capped for first 4 years with any FERC change in transmission being applied as an offset to distribution. Rates continue to be regulated through the 10th year with the rate gradually increasing during the second six years for the residential and small commercial customers.  For the large commercial and industrial customers, the rate regulation ends 12/31/07. 11.  A rate stabilization deferral fund is created to facilitate the transition to competition in years 11, 12 and 13, under which APS must contribute $56.75 million and AEP must contribute $81 million to be used as an offset to the prices paid by small residential and commercial default customers. 12.  Large commercial and industrial customers receive for the first 4 years, rate decreases in an amount to be determined by the Commission for AEP customers and 3% for APS customers.  The rate decrease is allocated to distribution. 13.  No stranded costs (either generating or regulatory assets) for AEP or APS, however APS gets a ten year PURPA surcharge starting at 2.6 mills per kwh in year one and declining to .75 mills per kwh in the last two years. 14.  Usual licensing requirements.  (AEP fought for the right to have a second tier of licensing where they would have the ability to certify marketers but we defeated that). 15. Corporate separation and codes of conduct as described above. 16. Consumer protection and education requirements typically found in other plans. 17. Low income protection provisions providing a .2 mil surcharge with the minimum being $.40 and the maximum being $300. 18. Utility worker protection plan. Below for your information is the plan. At this point the plan goes to the PSC for approval and then on to the legislature for a resoulution approving the PSC order.  We expect that AEP and labor will oppose it, so it will be a close call. Janine 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
Ginger - Attached are Enron's finalized comments on the Barton bill.  Would you please forward to all the folks in Rick's group and include Steve Kean? Many thanks. 
James D Steffes 11/02/2000 06:13 PM 
Ginger -- Can you please distribute to all of Rick's group. 1. Talking Points 2. FERC Order Summary 
Please take a moment to review the attached memo introducing Mike Terraso's Environment, Health & Safety Organization and Environmental Strategies Team. Also attached, is an organizational chart for your use. Thank you. 
Attached, please find the ""West Desk Organizational Chart"".  Please note, this is chart is for ""internal use"" ONLY! gngr 713-853-7751 
Please e:mail from Sarah Novosel below. gngr 
Ginger: Would you please forward the attached Congestion Management Comparison chart to everyone in Government Affairs.   This chart was recently prepared for us by Tabors Caramanis. Although the people dealing with wholesale issues will have the most interest in the chart, I believe there are others who are also interested in the congestion management debate. Thanks Sarah 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
Please see the attached e:mail below from Nancy Hetrick and respond directly to her. thanks gngr 
Ginger, would you please forward the following request to the State Goverment Affairs group for me.  Thanks. Attached for your review and comments is the second group of recommended practices worked on by the UBP group.  The Suppliers that have participated in the UBP plan to submit joint comments to this report and I would like to be able to incorporate any comments that individuals in Enron's State Government Affairs Group may have into the overall Supplier comments.  In order to meet the deadline for comments, I need to receive your comments no later than noon, August 28th.  The best way to submit these comments is by red-lining the actual document. You can also review and download the entire UBP report, including the finalized chapters and the chapters ""out for comments"", on http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/download.htm. Please feel free to contact me (712-366-3399 or pager 888-912-1426) if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time and consideration. 
approval 
approval Attached below the article is the Resolution 
Please keep in mind, until the FERC responds, there will be no changes to our markets. (See attached file: resolution bid caps august 16.doc) Also FYI: Dow Jones Newswires CalPX To Ask FERC To Reduce Day-of, Day-Ahead Price Cap: Board Caves In To Political Pressure By Jason Leopold LOS ANGELES--The California Power Exchange, the spot market where electricity is bought and sold in the state, approved a measure Wednesday seeking federal authority to impose a $350 per megawatt-hour bid cap on wholesale power prices in its day-of and day-ahead markets. Members of the CalPX's board of governors admitted that the measure was approved as a result of intense political pressure being placed on the board by state lawmakers and Gov. Gray Davis. ""Not approving this is political suicide,"" said CalPX board member Carolyn Keherein, who also serves on the board of governors at the California Independent System Operator. ""We're not changing 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation 
San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation Please note for your review the following news article which appeared in the August 22, 2000 edition of the San Francisco Chronicle: [Ginger:  please also route/distribute to those whom you deem appropriate. Thanks!] Joseph Alamo Sr. Administrative Assistant Government Affairs - The Americas San Francisco CA ---------------------------------------------------------------------- This article was sent to you by someone who found it on SF Gate. The original article can be found on SFGate.com here: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/22/M N1901.DTL ---------------------------------------------------------------------- August 22, 2000 (SF Chronicle) Partial Electric Rate Freeze OKd for Hard-Hit San Diego/Critics say more relief needed for deregulation David Lazarus, Chronicle Staff Writer Responding to calls for action from Gov. Gray Davis, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a limited rate freeze yesterday for electricity users in San Diego, where power bills have skyrocketed in recent months. However, the measure was harshly criticized by San Diego officials and consumer activists as being an insufficient remedy for surging rates resulting from deregulation of the state's electricity market. They are now looking for relief from legislators in Sacramento, who are expected to vote today on a bill that would allow them to sidestep state energy regulators and impose more extensive restrictions on how much San Diegans can be charged for power. ""I'm extremely, extremely disappointed,"" said San Diego County Supervisor Dianne Jacob, who flew up for yesterday's PUC meeting in San Francisco with other local officials. Former San Diego Mayor Maureen O'Connor urged California legislators to scrap the state's electricity deregulation altogether. ""To continue the farce so that the whole state is under this terrorist economic endeavor is just ridiculous,"" she said. O'Connor added that Bay Area ratepayers should be concerned about what will happen when Pacific Gas and Electric Co. lifts a freeze on its own electricity rates, perhaps as soon as next summer. ""We already have the train wreck in San Diego,"" she said. ""It's coming 
Below please find the strategy document that was put together by Jim Steffes at the meeting on Tuesday, September 19. gngr 
James D Steffes 11/02/2000 06:13 PM 
Ginger -- Can you please distribute to all of Rick's group. 1. Talking Points 2. FERC Order Summary 
Please forward to Gov't Affairs group. Enron North America Corp. 
Systems 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 11/10/2000 03:22 PM 
Systems Please forward this to Rick's group.  Thanks. Please note that these FERC staff reports contain some potentially helpful information that can be used at the state PUC level, including information on the increase in generation in the Midwest that market participants attribute to lack of price caps following the summer 1998 price spikes; better preparation for summer 2000 through the use of forward contracts and transmission problems that may have resulted in keeping cheaper power from particular markets. On 11/1/00, FERC Staff issued reports on its Investigation of Bulk Power Markets in the Eastern Interconnection.  These reports were the result of a Commission order earlier this summer.  Enron's Federal regulatory staff (Christi, Charles Yeung, and Sarah Novosel) provided a great deal of information for this investigation and Joe Hartsoe and Donna Fulton discussed many of the problems with the grid with the new head of Staff, Scott Miller (who recently joined FERC from PG&E Gen).    While the Commission is under no obligation to take any of Staff's recommendations, the Commission typically looks to Staff for guidance on transmission and market issues.  Importantly, Staff concludes that the Commission should consider these options for the Southeast and Midwest -- all of which Enron has been asking FERC to implement for several years: Reduce the advantages of network service over point to point service by requiring that native load be served under the same tariff as other transmission services to eliminate the current incentives that VIUs have to favor their native load through the calculation of ATC and handling of interconnection requests. While the Staff Hotline is used productively, the Commission can direct Staff to conduct formal investigations into entities that have a pattern of complaints. The Commission could require TPs to submit tariff provisions containing a pro forma interconnection process specific to interconnection, rather than simply relying on the Tennessee Power order that utilizes the OATT timelines and procedures. Require TPs to retain real-time transmission data on market functions pertaining to daily load, internal generation to meet that load, and imports and exports. RTOs should submit the basis and methods for calculating ATC and TTC, as well as standardized criteria for curtailment.  In addition, since even such standardized criteria might not ""get to the root of the problem"" -- that control area still control generation -- the Commission could require that each RTO set a date certain by which it will create one control area. Regardless of the implementation of these two options, the Commission could standardize ATC and TTC methodology. Staff finds that while electricity is a commodity with market characteristics similar to many other commodities, it is still viewed as ""different,"" with a reaction of price caps.  Staff encourages that basic decisions about the regulatory model be made in order to complete the transition from a traditional cost-of-service model to a model that uses markets to price the commodity and services. DETAILS  (Also, the reports contain good summaries of the generation, transmission, state retail, federal reg. and other issues for the region): Midwest:  The Midwest is dominated by vertically integrated Transmission Providers (""TPs"") that control transmission, generation and load.  ""As such, they have weak economic incentives to provide access to transmission service to third-parties and strong incentives to favor their own services.""  Staff received numerous complaints; however, due to the lack of information available from TPs, Staff cannot conclude whether these are isolated incidents or wide-spread.  At the very least, the complaints indicate a lack of confidence in the bulk power market and the ability of market participants to rely on transmission access, thus harming the liquidity of the market. TLRs are the most important transmission issue in the Midwest, with an ""enormous"" increase in 2000.  The region showed a decline in peak load from 1999 to 2000 and a growth in new generation since the 1998 price spikes. Even though there was an increase in generation and mild weather with virtually no price spikes, TLRs climbed to record numbers.  The TLRs were highly concentrated:  only 5 flowgates account for 41% of ECAR TLRs and another 5 flowgates in MAIN account for 42% in that region.  Notably, even though the NERC procedures for Level 3 TLRs mandate transaction curtailment, 78 of the 191 TLRs in the Midwest do not show any curtailment amount.  The total amount of relief that these curtailments are intended to produce are not posted.  Staff notes that TLR rules are established by NERC, whose procedures are voluntary and not enforced by penalties.  While the Commission has required certain NERC standards and procedures to be placed in Open Access Transmission Tariffs (""OATT"") where the Commission has the power to enforce provisions under the Federal Power Act, in practice the Commission has generally deferred to NERC on transmission reliability questions, including the propriety of TLRs. TLRs inhibit optimal functioning of the transmission system and market because load is not served by the least cost supplier.  TLR procedure is an inefficient instrument in mitigating constraints -- curtailment by fiat.  In addition, the NERC IDC can result in inappropriate curtailments or increased loading on the affected flowgate.  The impact could be mitigated by one control area per RTO. Staff notes that the Midwest state commissions did not petition FERC for price caps following the 1998 price spikes.  Some market participants believe that the absence of price spikes is the single reason that NUG construction increased in the Midwest. Market participants must keep track of, and follow, a plethora of information in order to make energy deals, submit reservations and provide schedules for service.  Staff received many complaints about barriers to transmission access, including TLR curtailments and a lack of standardized information and protocols, particularly for ATC and interconnection requests, and discriminatory conduct.  Unbelievably, key data was unavailable to Staff, such coincident peak load data, system-wide snap shots for days when TLRs were called, and import/export data.  This lack of data creates a market inefficiency, because neither market participants nor regulators can fully analyze market conditions in real time.  As such, the market is risk adverse, eschewing long-term deals for short-term transactions.  Staff also noted that because the Security Coordinators often work for the IOU, there is a mixed incentive to enforce reliability on the grid and maximize profit for the IOU.  (Staff cites Richard Tabors' paper, ""Transmission Markets, Stretching the Rules for Fun and Profit."") Staff cites the lack of information on OASIS or on the NERC web site, particularly about real time TLRs and curtailments.  Examples were provided to Staff of transmission refusals when there were no TLRs posted and improper implementation of TLRs causing substantial financial loss. The currently proposed Midwest RTOs may mitigate some problems; however, all three retain existing control areas with the favortism for generation and native load.  These incentives will continue to remain until the RTO exercises complete autonomy over transmission control and security coordinator functions.  Staff notes that the Midwest is a balkanized region of 61 control areas with no uniform method for calculating ATC and CBM.  The result is that ATCs can be different on 2 different sides of an interface. Staff notes examples in inaccurate ATCs and states that Staff's own ATC audit this summer was consistent with market participant complaints.  Staff is weighing follow-up options.  The result of these problems is a lack of liquidity. Staff next noted the problems with unfiled ""business practices,"" especially on the next hour market.  Staff's audit of OASIS sites revealed several areas of non-compliance. Information transparency is necessary for a market to function efficiently, with equal and timely access to data, including ATC, CBM, TRM, and load flow input data.  TPs have incentives to resist efforts to make this information transparent because of native load.  This incentive will still exist under RTOs if utilities are allowed to calculate their own ATC.  ***  ""As a consequence, the Commission may wish to eliminate the native load exemption and have all transactions under the same tariff.""  ***  The Commission could benefit by having access to existing transmission data and should require the TPs to retain data, including current real-time network status. Interconnection Issues:  IPPs need to be compensated for VAR support.  Also, Staff cites a number of Hotline complaints about TPs seeking large deposits or failing to complete System Impact Studies timely.  One solution is to have the RTO handle this function to eliminate the disincentive the utilities have against IPPs.  The current practice of requiring IPPs to deal with a wide variety of procedures inhibits the free flow of transactions within the region. Network service has inherent advantages over point-to-point, citing the 
FYI - see e:mail below from Sarah Novosel. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate this summary to everyone in government affairs. = =20 The summary is similar to the summary Christi sent to you on Friday on FERC= =20 Staff's report on the midwest and southeast regions. Thanks Ginger Sarah 
Attached is a summary of FERC Staff=01,s November 1, 2000 report on its=20 investigation of the Northeast region.  The report is very encouraging=20 because it is comprehensive and recommends many of the changes and solution= s=20 that Enron has been advocating for years.  The report is also encouraging= =20 because it indicates a significant level of understanding of the northeast= =20 markets (and the problems in these markets) by the FERC people who worked o= n=20 this report.  Because this is only a brief summary, the entire report=20 (particularly sections 4 and 5) should be read in detail.  A copy of the=20 report is attached. Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah =20 
fyi gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger - This has been tested and should now work for everyone.  Please forward this message to Rick's group. Project Tracking (with RCRs) has been moved from the EES server to the Corp server.  We need to re-establish everyone's connection to the application. To check to see if you have a link to the correct copy of the application, in Lotus Notes right click on each link to the application, then select Database, Properties, and check the server name, which should be ENE-NS05. If it is this server name, you can skip the rest of this message. If that's not the server you're accessing for each link, follow these steps. - Delete from your Lotus Notes workspace your existing links to the project tracking system.  You should have three links - Project Tracking, Projects and Contacts.  To delete each link, click on the link and press the delete key. - Click on each of the attached links to re-load the system on the new server.  When you click each one, it will add the link to your Lotus Notes workspace.  You should be launched into the database as each database loads. Please double check each link following the directions at the beginning of this message to make sure it's linked to the ENE-NS05 server. - If the server name is different, please leave me a voicemail or send me an e-mail. The Projects database is the one you'll access for project management and RCRs.  The Contacts database was created for future use, and the Project Management database is necessary for administrative purposes. 
Please see below information on the West Virginia Settlement from Janine Migden. 
Thom and I have just completed negotiations in West Virginia involving APS, AEP and other stakeholders. The settlement, being filed today is a compromise on all the issues and is the result of negotiations.  Enron was the only marketer involved in the process.  While we weighed in all the issues, there are a number of items that but for our persistence would not have been included in the final agreement.  These items include the following: 1.  Native load language 2.  Competitive metering and billing for industrial and large commercials as of day one, with other customers following no later than within the next four years. 3.  Addition of competitive bidding for default service at end of 5 years. 4.  Change from functional separation to a requirement to corporately separate as soon as possible but no later than within the next five years. 5.  Strong codes of conduct that form the base for more detailed rulemaking. (A special thanks to Lara Leibman for her assistance). Below is a summary of the entire settlement: 1.  All customers can exercise choice beginning January 1, 2001. 2.  All utilities including IOU's, munies and coops can opt in.  APS has committed to opt in whereas AEP is not because it did not get any stranded cost and it also did not get a guarantee of full recovery of all costs resulting from the environmental lawsuits against them irrespective of their financial condition. 3.  Competitive metering and billing as described above. 4.  Generation is deregulated. 5.  PSC continues jurisdiction over implemention, rate unbundling, reliability, codes of conduct, supplier licensing, construction of transmission lines and eminent domain authority. 6.  Native load language - Requires utilities to provide service to affiliated and unaffiliated suppliers only under the applicable distribution tariffs and proformatransmission tariffs. 7.  RTO's - Each utility must join a FERC approved RTO or its equivlent by no later than 1/1/03;  best efforts requirement to eliminate pancaking by 1/1/05 if IOU's are in separate RTO's. 8.  Competitive bidding process for  default service customers at end of year 5 for remainder of transition period. 9.  Rate unbundling requirement 10. Rates capped for first 4 years with any FERC change in transmission being applied as an offset to distribution. Rates continue to be regulated through the 10th year with the rate gradually increasing during the second six years for the residential and small commercial customers.  For the large commercial and industrial customers, the rate regulation ends 12/31/07. 11.  A rate stabilization deferral fund is created to facilitate the transition to competition in years 11, 12 and 13, under which APS must contribute $56.75 million and AEP must contribute $81 million to be used as an offset to the prices paid by small residential and commercial default customers. 12.  Large commercial and industrial customers receive for the first 4 years, rate decreases in an amount to be determined by the Commission for AEP customers and 3% for APS customers.  The rate decrease is allocated to distribution. 13.  No stranded costs (either generating or regulatory assets) for AEP or APS, however APS gets a ten year PURPA surcharge starting at 2.6 mills per kwh in year one and declining to .75 mills per kwh in the last two years. 14.  Usual licensing requirements.  (AEP fought for the right to have a second tier of licensing where they would have the ability to certify marketers but we defeated that). 15. Corporate separation and codes of conduct as described above. 16. Consumer protection and education requirements typically found in other plans. 17. Low income protection provisions providing a .2 mil surcharge with the minimum being $.40 and the maximum being $300. 18. Utility worker protection plan. Below for your information is the plan. At this point the plan goes to the PSC for approval and then on to the legislature for a resoulution approving the PSC order.  We expect that AEP and labor will oppose it, so it will be a close call. Janine 
Please see e:mail from Nancy Hetrick below. gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, would you please distribute this e-mail to everyone in Government Affairs.  Thanks. As you all know, Enron has been actively participating in an industry-wide collaborative effort, working to develop recommended Uniform Business Practices (UBP) for Retail Energy Markets.  This effort was in direct response to the Coalition for Uniform Business Rules (CUBR) report, which was published in September 1999.  THE UBP released Volume 1 of a two-volume final report on November 22, 2000.   Volume 1 includes recommend business practices for the following topics:  Customer Information, Customer Enrollment & Switching, Billing & Payment Processing, Exhibit - Billing Services Agreement, Load Profiling, Supplier Licensing, Market Participant Interaction( MPI):  Governing Documents and Performance Standards, Exhibit - Outline for Master Service Agreement, Disputes Between Utility and the Supplier, Customer Inquiries, Exhibit - Customer Account Maintenance and Glossary.  Also included in the document is an Introduction and a Preface. We would like to promote the use of this UBP report as a key item to be included in Enron's advocacy efforts for state restructuring legislation and commission implementation proceedings.  This report can be downloaded and printed from the following website:  http://www.ubpnet.org/workshop/index.htm .  If you would prefer to receive a printed copy of this report, please e-mail me with your request and we will make the necessary arrangments for the report to be printed and distributed. Volume 2 which will address unbundled electricity metering will be published by year-end 2000.  I will let you know when this portion of the report is available. Also, please feel free to contact me if you have any questions regarding this report or if you would like assistance in promoting the use of the UBP report within the various states.  Vinio Floris, who has recently joined our group, will also be working with me to promote the use of this report.  Barbara Hueter is also devoting time to this project by participating with other 
Competition... - CERA Alert 
See msg. from Margaret Carson. gngr 713-853-7751 
Competition... - CERA Alert Ginger, Please send this to all govt affairs people  as it has  some very good insights into State by State initiatives.  Thanks,   Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert Some  good insight  here..Margaret 
Competition... - CERA Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Wed, November 29, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: Limited Chances to Play Won't Bench the Competition... Author: Biehl, Behrens E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Retail Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1430 , Alternative URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ref/alt/112900_19/ref_alt_112900_19_ab.html ********************************************************* RETAIL MARKTERS SEE OPPORTUNITY IN NONTRADITIONAL WAYS TO GROW CUSTOMER BASE With a tight supply-demand balance for natural gas and power in most US regions, CERA sees another difficult year ahead for retail marketers. * Nontraditional means of acquiring customer bases may offer a better opportunity for retail marketers to build market share in 2001 in order to be better positioned when more attractive retail market opportunities open in 2002. * Competitive retail suppliers are looking closely at supplying the regulated customer base (through standard offer or default service) and municipal aggregation to build customer base. Movements by regulators to reset prices below market standard offers for power are improving market conditions in several US Northeast states. **end** Follow URL for complete Monthly Briefing. ********************************************************* Come Shoot the Rapids with us at CERAWeek2001, ""Shooting the Rapids: Strategies and Risks for the Energy Future"" in Houston, February 12-16, 2001!  For more information and to register, please visit http://www.cera.com/ceraweek/ ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Forwarding info. below per the request of Christi Nicolay. gngr 713-853-7751 
Please forward to Rick's group in North America, Canada and PR.  Thanks. 
=?ANSI_X3.4-1968?Q?orities,_RCR=01,s_&_Legal_Agreements?= 
Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. 
Please see forwarded attachments from Jeff Brown. Thanks & Happy Holidays!!!!!! gngr 
Ginger - Please forward to Rick's group.  Thanks - Jeff The attached files include:  (1) a detailed schedule of activities over the next six months  (2)  achievements to date and (3)  a directory of the Advisory Committee. 
Attached are the presentations from the Government Affairs-The Americas dept. meeting which was held on Friday, December 8.  For those of you who missed the special presentation for Rick, it is attached for your viewing pleasure (see luggage). gngr 
Rick asked that I get the US/Canada Goverment Affairs ""Working Group"" list to everyone, so here it is! gngr 
Msg. from Rick Shapiro I know how eagerly everyone is awaiting the formation of the Resource Allocation Working group*.  Below is a brief description of the group's purpose and initial steps we will be taking.  I want to thank everyone in advance for what I know will be a successful effort. What this group is about:       Identifying best practices within Public Affairs for prioritization of efforts and allocation of resources and documenting the best practices for implementation as soon as possible throughout Public Affairs. How we're going to do it:  Quickly and efficiently. Why we're doing this:  Because we have finite human and financial resources.... because we have an obligation to direct those finite resources to their highest and best use. When we're going to start this process:  Initial meeting in Houston, January 7, 2000 from 8:00am - 11:00am (call in participation is perfectly acceptable). What's required for initial meeting:  A one page or less description of how your group prioritizes its efforts; how both human and financial resources are allocated, and how all of this fits within your budgeting process (should be distributed to all group members two (2) days prior to meeting). Finally:  I am attaching material that my group has used over the last year to implement a resource allocation/issue priortization process.  I will provide a more detailed explanation at the initial meeting.  Please feel free to call me if you have any questions before then. *  You've either been nominated or selected, or volunteered for this working group.  Congratulations. Copy of E:mail sent on 12/15/99 Please read the attached memo from Rick Shapiro along with the attachments. Thanks. Copy of E:Mail Sent on 10/19/99 Please see the attached Word document for directions on a new on-line procedure for RCR's.  All RCR requests must now be submitted on-line through the Project Tracking system.  To access the system, click on the first link below, and a new icon will be added to your Lotus Notes desktop (it has a picture of a globe).  (Don't click on the other two links, they'll be added automatically.)    If you have any problems accessing the system, please call me.  If you have any questions on entering the information, please call me or Ginger.  Thanks!! Click on this link  -->     > Gov Affairs > Projects > Contacts Instructions:  --> Copy of E:mail sent on 8/25/99 Upon further reflection after the recent staff meeting, I have made the determination that any and allengagements of outside resources, e.g., outside counsel & consultants, public relations firms, etc... must be approved through the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process.  Accordingly, the $2500 trigger that had been in place is no longer.  To ensure that the process works in a more timely manner, I am creating weekly RCR meetings (Harry, Jim & myself) at which all pending RCR's will be acted on.  I will deal with emergency RCR's as they may arise between the weekly meetings. Bottom line, the RCR process is of enormous value to the group as it helps to document that we are properly focusing the company's resources in the places where it is of most value.  I firmly believe that whatever minor inconveniences this change will entail, they are minor in relationship to ensuring the success and credibility of the RCR process. Memo sent on 3/18/99 
FYI gngr 713-853-7751 
Robin and Gia became the proud parents of Sophia Abigail on Monday, December 11, at 9:50 am.  She weighed 9 and 1/2 pounds and is 21 inches long.  Robin and Sophia are both doing well, as is Gia, although he reports being a bit 
We recently concluded an exercise to identify the top =01&ten=018 objective= s for=20 U.S./Canada Government Affairs for 2000, which I presented to the group at= =20 the December 16 staff meeting.  Our success in achieving these objectives= =20 will define the group=01,s success in the New Year. Two of our top three objectives involve providing support to the Risk=20 Management group in EES.  Number 3 and Number 2 (one of the number 2=01,s) = are,=20 respectively, ? Ensure that PG&E=01,s generation-related stranded cost is =01&rolled off= =018 no=20 later than September 30, 2000 and generally protect and inform EES curves ? Understand rules/tariffs/outcomes better than anyone else and convert to= =20 information valuable to business units As a general matter, it is imperative that we continue to assure ourselves= =20 that our everyday efforts are focused on achieving the objectives that are = so=20 critical to our success.  The way the group provides support to EES Risk=20 Management, and in turn achieves the objectives noted above, is one area=20 where there is potential to improve performance with a refocusing of effort= s. Toward this end, I am asking that these individuals take on the=20 responsibility, for their respective regional group, of being a point of=20 contact for EES Risk Management: Mona Petrochko, Western Region  Kate Wagner, South Central/Southeast Region Becky Merola, Great Lakes/Midwest Region Frank Rishe, Mid Atlantic/New=20 York/New England Region Mona, Becky, Kate and Frank will work with individuals on the EES pricing= =20 desk to improve the flow of information necessary for timely, accurate=20 utility rate curves and help EES develop strategies to improve the economic= s=20 of existing outsource deals.  I expect this activity will take a significan= t=20 portion of their time.  They will coordinate their efforts with Harry=20 Kingerski and Pat Keene who will continue to provide a centralized support = to=20 EES Risk Management from Houston. I recognize that many of you are called on from time to time to provide oth= er=20 types of support to EES, for sales calls, licensing requirements,=20 environmental issues, legal support, and the like.  This change in no way= =20 affects these other activities and you should continue to pursue those=20 efforts. =20 As a final note, I invite all of you to identify and bring to me ways we ca= n=20 improve our chances of success in meeting any of our Year 2000 objectives. = I=20 am not interested in change just for its own sake but will certainly consid= er=20 doing things differently if our likelihood of success can be improved.=20 
You have received a new IS&S request for richard shapiro.  Please review the request and make any necessary changes.  If you approve the access, please click the Approve button at the top of the request form and EES Security will receive notification.  You may click the link at the end of this message to view the request document. 
Please let me know if the time below will work on your calendars for the above mentioned meeting. Monday, February 28, 8-9:30am cst/9:00-10:30am est/or 2-3:30pm London Please respond at your earliest convenience. Helen Rizzo * - Rick would like John to attend if these times will work into his schedule. Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Enron Energy Services Phone No: 713 853-7751 
Rick would like to hold a conference call regarding the above subject.  In checking with Rick's, Steve's & Mark Schroeders schedules the times below would work best for their calendars and Thursday the 24th is the date with the most possibilities.  Please let me know if any and all of these times would work for you to attend.  Thanks and please call if you have any questions. gngr Thursday, February 24 Anytime after 11:00am cst/12:00pm est/4:00pm London 
The Woodlands, TX here we come!!!!!!  I hope everyone is ready for the next Government Affairs - The Americas department meeting.  The meeting is scheduled for Thursday, March 30 at 9:00am and should conclude by 4:00pm. For those staying over night, I will be putting a rooming list together and will need to know your plans for attending this meeting by, Friday, March 3. I know this is somewhat short notice but I'd like to get this finalized sooner, rather than later, so your co-operation in this matter will be greatly appreciated.  The location of the meeting will be: The Woodlands Resort 2301 North Millbend Drive The Woodlands, TX  77380 Phone# 281-367-1100 Guest Fax# 281-364-6274 The Woodlands Resort provides transportation service to and from the airport.  The shuttle service operates every hour on the hour from 6:00am - 10:00pm.   Please let me know what your travel arrangements are and I will forward it to the transportation department.  Once I have forwarded all of the transportation requests to them, any changes that need to be made will need to be made directly with the transportation desk at 281-364-6256. Attached is a draft agenda for the meeting (Pamela Lesh and Lance Schuler, please note the time of your presentations.  Also, please let me know what your audio visual needs will be and I will make sure it is available). Thanks and please don't hesitate to call me with questions. gngr 
Attached is a copy of S. 2098, the ""Electric Power Market Competition and Reliability Act"" sponsored by Senator Murkowski. Ginger - would you please forward to the folks in Rick's group?  Thanks. 
Ginger - Attached are Enron's finalized comments on the Barton bill.  Would you please forward to all the folks in Rick's group and include Steve Kean? Many thanks. 
and electric service standards 
Please see message from Kerry Stroup below. 
and electric service standards The Ohio Commission has recently adopted several sets of administrative rules required by the state's electric restructuring law.  Rules have been issued specifiying certification requirements and procedures, reporting requirements for the Commission's monitoring of the retail marketplace, alternative dispute resolution, non-competitive electric service standards, and competitive retail electric service standards.  A document follows, summarizing some of the major highlights of the adopted rules.  As promulgated, the rules regarding certification and market monitoring are not overly burdensome.  The competitive electric service standards are a mixed bag, e.g. imposing significant duties regarding contract disclosure and term, while providing for telephonic and Internet enrollment. Please direct any questions regarding the rules to me. 
Please see below. 
Please forward to entire group- This is an example of an outstanding memo that conveys critical information to our commercial counterparts- to the point and very relevant-- it is a model to emulate. 
This is a brief primer to assist you with current policy regarding interconnecting generation plants in the East.  Please forward this to your groups.  Thanks.  Christi Nicolay 37007  EB3108h.  I am available for your federal/FERC regulatory questions and can point you to the correct state/regional regulatory people. When initially deciding where to site a plant, there are several federal regulatory issues to consider: First, you will need to obtain the utility's interconnection policy and a pro forma interconnection agreement from the utility.  For most utilities, you will need to call them to obtain their policy and agreement.  Some utilities have this available on their OASIS computer site or web page.  The OASIS sites have areas that do not require a password, but if the information is not available in that area, you should contact the power trading desk transmission personnel to assist in locating the information.  If a utility says it does not have a policy, you can let me know. The interconnection procedures typically require you to send in a request for the utility to study the interconnection (Typically, app. $10,000).  When you return the money and the request (which is usually an agreement that must be initialled by ENA legal), the project will be placed in the ""queue.""  The queue is usually available on the OASIS.  If the utility does not post the queue, let me know. Many times the procedures require the project to meet ""milestones"" in order to remain in the queue.  If the milestones look unreasonable, let me know. FERC (the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) recently issued an order 
Please see below. gngr 
Please distribute to everyone in group in North America. Thanks. 
Richard, Per our conversation please find attached a brief introduction to Downstream Originations, the crux of our efforts, and a contact list. We continue to benefit from increased contact with your staff, and look forward to working together on more projects. Kindly amend if necessary and distribute to all concerned.  I have confirmed to Ginger that I am available to make a presentation at your June 8/9 meeting as well. Regards, Wendy King X35814 
FYI 
Could you please forward to the group.  Just an FYI.  Thanks. 
? I thought that this paper might be of interest  given the topic of our upcoming ACE meeting.? It's kind of a primer on bulk  power issues.? I haven't read it, but I know that the author is very well  respected in the field.? ? Matthew - RAPBPBasics.pdf - ATT00019.txt 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
Please take a moment to review the attached memo introducing Mike Terraso's Environment, Health & Safety Organization and Environmental Strategies Team. Also attached, is an organizational chart for your use. Thank you. 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
gngr 
gngr 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger, Attached is a memo that Howard Fromer, Sarah Novosel and I recently drafted summarizing the regulatory environment in New York. Could you please distribute it to the Government Affairs group. Thanks, Kathleen 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger: Would you please circulate the attached briefs to the Government Affairs group as an FYI.  These are Enron's briefs filed in the Supreme Court case regarding FERC's Order No. 888 open access proceeding. Thanks Sarah 
Please e:mail from Sarah Novosel below. gngr 
Ginger: Would you please forward the attached Congestion Management Comparison chart to everyone in Government Affairs.   This chart was recently prepared for us by Tabors Caramanis. Although the people dealing with wholesale issues will have the most interest in the chart, I believe there are others who are also interested in the congestion management debate. Thanks Sarah 
Christi L Nicolay@ECT 05/22/2001 04:22 PM 
Ginger--Please forward to the Rick's group. Entire East Power Group org. chart. 
Attached, please find the ""West Desk Organizational Chart"".  Please note, this is chart is for ""internal use"" ONLY! gngr 713-853-7751 
These talking points are to help you address questions about the Front Line program that took place last night. gngr 713-853-7751 
Beyond the two excellent editorials in today's WSJ (attached) the following should be the key messages: 1.  The show was an aimless wander through the well-worn territory of blame-game politics, with a healthy dose of fear mongering thrown in. 2.  It should not surprise anyone that two Berkley-based journalists, working in conjunction with the New York Times, would ignore Econ 101 and suggest that the solution for California's energy crisis is to subject the entire nation to Roosevelt era New Deal regulations.  Such pinings have been abandoned over the past 65 years, but if the New York Times wants to stake out that position ... fine.  It will probably help sharpen the debate and set up a clear victory for the market when supply comes onstream and prices moderate.  (Much sooner than the decades of legal wrangling to return to New Deal regulations.) 3.  The show completely ignored the failings of California's political and regulatory leadership to moderate or even eliminate the crisis when they had a chance. 4.  Of the electricity consumed in California, less than 15 percent is generated by companies headquartered in Texas.  More than 50 percent of the electricity in California is generated by municipal entities that have been charging the same high prices as the Texas ""pirates.""  These good pirates include the Bonneville Power Administration, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Government of British Columbia, and the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. Business World: California's Ship of Fools By Holman W. Jenkins Jr. 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A27 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Lamenting the politician's lot in ""Profiles in Courage,"" John F. Kennedy wrote that ""In no other occupation is it expected that a man will sacrifice honors, prestige and his chosen career on a single issue."" Of course, no politician would last long if he didn't blow with the wind nine times out of 10. But on the tenth occasion even California has the right to expect some courage. We don't know what happens when an advanced economy like California's suffers day after day of blackouts. We may be about to find out. Modern office architecture becomes uninhabitable without air-conditioning and elevators. Old people and asthmatics may die in the heat. So may drivers at unlit traffic crossings. Steps could still be taken to lessen the blackouts, but voters wouldn't know the difference, and it's so much easier to cast blame. Gov. Gray Davis prates about a ""war with Texas."" And who knows what secret failures as a human being led Bill Lockyer, the attorney general, to threaten Enron's Ken Lay with homosexual rape in the California prison system. California has found itself singularly lacking in heroes in its hour of crisis. Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Davis harp on price, but the true problem is the unavailability of power at any price to meet the demand that exists under the current structure of retail rates. Both must know the solution they noisily advocate, federal price controls slapped across Western electricity markets, wouldn't bring power into existence to close the gap. Their proposal would simply saddle the feds with the dirty job of apportioning blackouts from California's mistakes across half a dozen other states. In California itself, municipal utilities in Santa Clara, Palo Alto and other towns have already announced they won't participate in rolling blackouts. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power certainly isn't volunteering. Why should voters in other states? Why not just cut the lines and let California monopolize the darkness? A state review board in Washington has already vetoed a proposed plant rather than suffer local pollution for power destined for California. Mr. Davis knows this; he knows price controls would create a new problem without solving the shortages. Meanwhile, the specter nobody wants to talk about is the state of California itself headed for bankruptcy if it continues to be willing to pay any price to satisfy the demand of consumers shielded from the true cost of power. Mr. Davis's version of the Big Lie is that Texas is to blame. Texas companies account for just 12% of California's supply, having bought 7,000 of the 20,000 megawatts that local utilities were forced to sell under ""deregulation."" Being in the right place at the right time has always been profitable, but any windfall has been spread widely among suppliers of gas, pipeline capacity, storage and ancillary services. Take Enron: Its revenues quadrupled in the past year, but so did its costs, and profits are up only 31%. A leaked California memo names as two of the biggest ""gougers"" BC Hydro, owned by Canadian taxpayers, and the U.S. Bonneville Power Administration. Their sin was letting their reservoirs fill up overnight while meeting local needs with spot-market power, so they could sell their own production for higher prices to California during the day. These are precisely efforts that might stop if price controls were imposed across the West, making the shortages worse, probably much worse. Northwestern smelters might be better off reclaiming the cheap hydro they've been passing on to California -- 3,000 megawatts, enough for two million homes. Farmers could resume irrigating. Seattle, Tacoma, Boise and other neighbors have all done what California has failed yet to do, hiking rates to curb demand. Rather than emulate them, Gov. Davis's peacock of an energy czar, David Freeman, babbles about ""public power,"" the answer to a question nobody asked, the solution to a nonexistent problem. Prices of electricity and natural gas for future delivery are already falling as investors race to build new plants and pipelines to meet the state's future needs. Markets foresee the crisis ending without Mr. Freeman's antique New Deal schemes. What's been missing while folks like him ride their hobby horses, though, is the courage to take steps necessary to minimize the suffering this summer. One large source of untapped power is California's own small generators, known as qualifying facilities. Their fee scale is set by the state, but California couldn't even summon the political competence to keep them in business, so 3,000 megawatts sit idle. People have tried to attach all kinds of ideological baggage to the California mess, but we wouldn't be here if water flows in the Columbia River system weren't down 54% from normal. Last summer, California's fossil-fuel generators increased their output by a whopping 62% to make up the shortfall, mostly by running existing plants harder. Yes, there have been flaky prices, partly because, mysteriously, California continues to use a discredited computer program to book a large chunk of its power one hour in advance. But the flaky prices also represent a system pulling out all stops to save California from itself. We said back in December there's only one solution: Jack up rates to stop consumers trying to burn more power than the state can beg, borrow or steal. The only question was when Gov. Davis would find the courage. Hard to believe, but the price hikes his regulators approved in March are still on the drawing board and busily being watered down. Someone should point out to Gov. Davis that the author of ""Profiles in Courage"" wasn't endorsing career suicide but suggesting that politicians must husband their leadership for times when it really counts. Not a few people in public life understand this. Al Gore openly yearned for the day when he could justify the compromises and trimming he's done in his life. But Mr. Davis is perhaps too lost in the dark to understand he is blowing the whole reason to have a political career. What borders on the stupefying, though, is the failure of any other Californian of prominence to step forward and speak truth about the power crisis. By all rights Gov. Davis should be a political leper, yet he actually stands a microscopic chance of being re-elected because of the sheer poverty, in a state of 34 million people, of the Republican opposition. Arnold Schwarzenegger is looking better all the time. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial) California Squeaks By 06/06/2001 The Wall Street Journal A26 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) The California energy crisis is now more than a year old and Governor Gray Davis has done nothing but squeak at it. At first, he attacked out-of-state power generators for being pirates and marauders. But lately he has focused on FERC and President Bush, demanding that the federal government place price caps on the sale of wholesale power. He's even rustled up 10 economists -- including the dad of deregulation, Alfred Kahn -- to support him. Well, as most everybody knows -- including the economists who have come out in favor of them -- price caps don't work. If caps are set too low, (as politics often dictate), existing supply will shrink and demand will grow, making the situation worse. Even ""correctly"" set price caps will discourage additional supply and do nothing to moderate demand. The usual result is an aggravation of shortages and rationing. Indeed, the history of price caps, particularly during the energy crisis in the early 1970s -- when oil prices were capped and lines at gasoline stations were long -- bears this out. The pro-price-caps argument however is a clever one. It rests on the notion that there is no ""effective competition"" in the California energy market. According to one of the 10 pro-price-cap economists, Paul Joskow at MIT, the energy market in California is characterized by inelastic demand and very, very tight supplies, which conspire to produce, at certain times, prices above those that would have obtained under competitive conditions. Mr. Joskow examined the California energy market during the summer of 2000, looking at market fundamentals (the broad forces determining supply and demand); he found that 25% to 30% of the wholesale prices of electricity during June, July and August cannot be explained by market fundamentals and should be attributed to market imperfections. As an argument for price caps, this is hardly overwhelming. Especially since there are several perfectly respectable and compelling reasons to look no further than market fundamentals. Such as the fact that the price of the most important input for almost half the electricity generated in California, natural gas, has been rising over the past year. Such as the fact that natural gas pipelines are filled to capacity, thus bidding up the price to transmit. Such as the fact that the worst drought in the Northwest in 60 years has reduced the amount of hydroelectric power in the market, putting even more demands on natural gas generation. Such as the fact that imports into the state, which were running 20% and up to 25% during peak usage, have declined. And the fact that the price of tradable permits for NOx emissions -- which must be held by plants generating electricity -- has skyrocketed. Not least the fact that demand in California during the past several years, unfettered by rate increases, has zoomed dramatically. At any rate, electric power is increasingly expensive all over the country; indeed, California's neighbors, the states of Washington, Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Montana, have had to bump up utility rates 30% to 50%. So where is the tablet of stone saying that California, with its especially restrictive environmental regulations, should be any different? The bad news for California is that, poor dears, it can't be different. Market fundamentals, like supply and demand, rule. But that's also the good news. High wholesale prices (and necessary profits) have done their job; they have brought forth a number of suppliers, in the form of more than a dozen plans for significant new generating plants; in fact, plans have even been announced to build more natural gas transmission pipelines. Too, demand has started to abate; peak demand on a monthly basis has fallen 4% to 9% from last year, doubtless a response to a ""temporary"" 10% rate hike in January and the California Public Utilities Commission's decision in March to finally really, really raise rates by as much as 50% on average. (The details of that plan were announced in May and rate increases will show up on this month's bills.) So California's blame-shifting pols can point fingers til the state freezes over. The market is working, and imposing price caps would not only interrupt that process, but would be unnecessary. Of course, there is a painful lag between the market signals of high prices due to shortages and the market remedies of increased supply and lower demand. And California will probably feel lots of that pain this summer in the form of continued high prices and blackouts. But, in the long run, the market will be successful in creating new supply and lower prices. Unfortunately California's energy glut will probably come too late to avoid a siege of political spinning and demagoguery. Ultimately we have to hope Californians will understand it is their politics that has served them poorly. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
This e:mail serves as confirmation of the date and time for the meeting mentioned below.  Please see details below. 
Rick Shapiro & Jim Steffes would like to schedule a meeting with the following people re:Coordinating Government Affairs activiteis with ENA's business goals: David Delaney John Lavorato Kevin Presto Tim Belden Rodney Malcolm Janet Dietrich Steve Kean Paul Kaufman My guess is that we will have to schedule something for late afternoon because of the trading schedule.   See below and respond to me with any/all of the dates and times that will work. Thursday, August 10 3:00pm-5:00pm Friday, August 11 3:00pm-5:00pm Friday, August 18 3:30pm-5:00pm Thanks and I wait patiently for your responses. gngr 
in SDG&E 
in SDG&E PUC approves rebate for S.D. as legislators urge 'ratepayer rebellion' -- San Diego Union tribune http://www.uniontrib.com/news/metro/20000803-991617-powerwoes.html PUC won't freeze rates -- Sacramento Bee http://www.capitolalert.com/news/capalert08_20000804.html Hundreds Denounce Price of Electricity Packed PUC meeting hears pleas for relief -- SF Chronicle http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2000/08/04/M N57802.DTL 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:' please email this to everyone in the Govt Affairs Group.  Thanks! 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:53 PM 
Please forward to entire group:  these are materials recently developed re: California. 
Dave and Ashley:  attached are the final version of the one-pagers.  One of the one-pagers is running onto the second page and I think I deleted out one of the block headings as well.  Would you mind doing ""clean-up"" on the graphics?  Once clean-up is finished, we're good to go.  Thank you !!  Call if you have questions. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:51 PM =20 
Please forward to entire group- these are recent talking points re:=20 California. 
Richard Shapiro 02/21/2001 04:50 PM =20 
Please distribute to entire group - recent talking points and proposals re:= =20 California . 
gngr 
Attached please find the California Contact List. gngr 
Cooperation 
Please see the attached statement from Public Relations - Assistants:  Please make sure your direct reports receive a copy of this e:mail. FYI- we issued the attached release this morning. I know our govt affairs teams will have lots of questions and will probably be asked several questions.  Unfortunately, given the legal nature of this inquiry, we cannot say anything more than this at this time.  We are asking our folks not to engage in conversations or opinion related discussions about this.  Also, Ken Lay will be discussing this at an employee meeting tomorrow morning.  It would be a good idea for everyone to tune in, if possible (or review the playback later in the day.) I am also attaching a brief INTERNAL Q&A about the SEC request- just to give a little more information. Thanks- Meredith Phiipp Public Relations 
Just a reminder that the next department conference call will take place on Friday, October 19 @ 10:30 AM (CDT)  The dial information is as follows: Number:		(1-800-283-1805) domestic 703-736-7385 (int'l #) Location:		EB4701 (for those in Houston) Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
The RCR meeting will take place today as follows: 
Per Rick's promise on last Friday's conference call, he will hold another general update call as follows: 
With all the ongoing changes that have been taking place around here and the known fact that some of us will be going our separate ways, it is my hope that we can all keep in touch in the future.  I would like to put something together for the group, so please provide me with your contact information, so I can prepare the ""Let's Keep in Touch"" contact list for Government Affairs.  Below is the contact information that I would like to receive from each of you. Once I have put the list together, I will forward it to everyone. Name: Home Address: Home Phone#: Home E:mail address: New Place of Employment (if available): Work Address: Work Phone Number: Work E:mail address: Cell #: Other Family Contact Information: Please provide current (or future if known) address and phone number. Thanks to all!!!! Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Rick will hold a Government Affairs department conference call tomorrow as follows.  Please mark your calendars accordingly. 