Below are the talking points that I'd propose we run by Stan and then have Stan use with John Gibson and Dave use with Terry Spencer.  Once everyone is OK with these, I'll email to Stan and Dave with a brief explanation that our recommendation is that we politely decline the suggestion from Steve Winston that we voluntarily rewrite the measurement agreement. 1.  Steve Winston's suggested approach is similar to ONEOK's Scott City measurement agreement with Kinder Morgan.  It uses PTR as an alternative form of measurement that takes precedence over the primary meters if the variation between the PTR and the primary meters exceeds certain thresholds.  That structure is very different from the Northern-ONEOK Measurement Procedures Agreement, which, as reaffirmed by the arbitrators, does not make the numbers from Northern's ultrasonic meters subject to ONEOK's PTR numbers except in the very narrow circumstance of a ""BTU measurement error"". 2.  Northern is not willing to modify the existing agreement to elevate ONEOK's PTR to a status equal to the ultrasonic meters because the meters and processes within the plant have numerous deficiencies and do not conform to AGA quality specifications.  ONEOK's independent outside experts, Barnes and Click, confirmed this fact during the arbitration. 3.  ONEOK can currently use PTR, or any other means it wants, to determine whether to call a ""special test"" of the accuracy of Northern's ultrasonic meters pursuant to Section 2(e) of the Measurement ProceduresAgreement.  Upon calling a special test, any concerns ONEOK may have about the accuracy of the ultrasonic meters would be resolved by independent technical analysis of the meters.  ONEOK has not called for a special test, but can do so at any time if it believes the ultrasonic meters are malfunctioning. 4.  If ONEOK wants to renegotiate the Measurement Procedures Agreement to track the structure of the Scott City procedure, ONEOK must bring its measurement and processes within the Bushton Plant up to AGA quality specifications and provide for maintenance of those meters consistent with those specifications. 5.  The current imbalance at the Plant is about $1.2 million owed to ONEOK, based on Northern's meters.  The outstanding imbalance situation at the Plant, which dates to April and May of this year, must be resolved irrespective of what ONEOK desires to do going forward.  Since ONEOK has not called a special test of Northern's meters, the arbitration award mandates that the metered data govern the imbalance for those months.  If ONEOK does not agree to that reconciliation, Northern will be forced to pursue appropriate remedies. 
Dave heard back from Terry Spencer of OneOk today that OneOk has changed its position on a couple of key issues.  First, Terry indicated that OneOk now agrees that the arbitration award is not limited in effect to just the past period.  They agree that the award interprets the measurement agreement, and that the interpretation is not limited to just the retroactive effect.  It is not clear how broad they think the prospective effect of the award is, but any change is significant on this issue.  Second, Terry indicated that OneOk is very likely to ask for a special test of the meters as a way of resolving the April-May issue, and, implicitly, the issue of whether the meters are OK going forward. This is also a big change, as OneOk has refused to call a special test since the initial demand letter we sent them last Fall. Spencer indicated OneOk was drafting a letter that would clarify their position.  In light of that, and of the apparent progress Dave made, Stan has agreed we should hold off on the demand letter until we see their letter.  Once Dave gets it, we'll all take a look and decide the next step.  Thanks.  DF 
Stan, the Bushton Team met yesterday and decided that there is no value and substantial risk to Northern in accepting OneOk's suggestion that we rewrite the Bushton Measurement Agreement to operate like the OneOk-Kinder Morgan Scott City measurement agreement.  We are reluctant to incorporate the PTR formula in any way beyond the limited purpose it serves under the current Measurement Agreement.  The following are talking points that Dave Neubauer will use today in a conversation with Terry Spencer, who is Steve Winston's boss.  Since Winston's proposal (which I sent to you by email last week) was a draft and has never been formally sent to us, we decided that having Dave deliver our message to Terry made more sense than sending a letter or elevating the issue to your and John Gibson's level.  However, if Gibson calls you and raises the issue of their proposal, the following points contain our message. Spencer may agree in the call with Dave to reconcile the April and May imbalance based on our metered numbers.  If not, Britt has prepared a demand letter that can be sent at any time to get resolution of that issue rolling.  I believe that Gibson indicated that he'd be calling you back this week to talk about this matter, so your conversation should take place before we send the demand letter. I'll forward the demand letter for your review separately. On the other proposal from OneOk that I forwarded to you last week (relating to operational changes designed to allow OneOk to get the helium plant running again), we have made some minor modifications and are sending the counterproposal back to OneOk.  We expect to get that deal in place with them soon.  This is a good development for them, and with little or no risk to us, and should temper any disappointment they feel because of our rejection of their measurment proposal. Please give me a call if you have any questions or concerns.  Thanks. DF 1.  Steve Winston's suggested approach is similar to ONEOK's Scott City measurement agreement with Kinder Morgan.  It uses PTR as an alternative form of measurement that takes precedence over the primary meters if the variation between the PTR and the primary meters exceeds certain thresholds.  That structure is very different from the Northern-ONEOK Measurement Procedures Agreement, which, as reaffirmed by the arbitrators, does not make the numbers from Northern's ultrasonic meters subject to ONEOK's PTR numbers except in the very narrow circumstance of a ""BTU measurement error"" (i.e., when the chromatograph malfunctions). 2.  Northern is not willing to modify the existing agreement to elevate ONEOK's PTR to a status equal to the ultrasonic meters because the Oneok meters and processes within the plant have numerous deficiencies and do not conform to AGA quality specifications.  ONEOK's independent outside experts, Barnes and Click, confirmed this fact during the arbitration. 3.  ONEOK can currently use PTR, or any other means it wants, to determine whether to call a ""special test"" of the accuracy of Northern's ultrasonic meters pursuant to Section 2(e) of the Measurement ProceduresAgreement.  Upon calling a special test, any concerns ONEOK may have about the accuracy of the ultrasonic meters would be resolved by independent technical analysis of the meters.  ONEOK has not called for a special test, but can do so at any time if it believes the ultrasonic meters are malfunctioning. 4.  If ONEOK wants to renegotiate the Measurement Procedures Agreement to track the structure of the Scott City procedure, ONEOK must bring its measurement and processes within the Bushton Plant up to AGA quality specifications and provide for maintenance of those meters consistent with those specifications. 5.  The current imbalance at the Plant is about $1.2 million owed to ONEOK, based on Northern's meters.  The outstanding imbalance situation at the Plant, which dates to April and May of this year, must be resolved irrespective of what ONEOK desires to do going forward.  Since ONEOK has not called a special test of Northern's meters, the arbitration award mandates that the metered data govern the imbalance for those months.  If ONEOK does not agree to that reconciliation, Northern will be forced to pursue appropriate remedies. 
You are invited to attend a meeting to discuss Transwestern on July 31st from 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. It will be held in 49C2 (Houston, not 47C2 as previously listed) and 7C2 (Omaha) via videoconference. Attendees, Houston:		Attendees, via phone, Washington D.C.:		Attendees, Omaha: Stan Horton			Charlie Moore (Akin, Gump)			Mary Kay Miller Ron Hayslett			Ron Nuschler (Akin, Gump)			Steve Kirk Danny McCarty			Joe Hartsoe					Greg Porter Steve Harris			Steve Stojic   (Gallagher, Borland)		Maria Pavlou Kim Watson			Frank Kelly    (Gallagher, Borland) Shelly Corman Drew Fossum Please let me know if you will be able to attend. Thanks, 
Did you set up a contract review session with Patton or any Dynegy folks for this am?  She called and wants to come over this am. -------------------------- 
Jayshree--here are some additional comments on the draft NNG teaser.  Kevin forwarded it to me.  Have you had any luck getting answers to the questions raised in your Feb. 8 email?  I'm happy to try to find the right people to discuss those issues if that would be helpful.  DF 
I've asked Emily to set up a meeting on Thur. or Fri. this week to push for= ward the discussion we started at Stan's half day staff meeting last week o= n employee allocation to Dynegy.  Please complete, as best you can, the org= . chart for your groups that Stan originally asked for and bring them to th= is meeting for discussion by the group (my recollection is that we were all= asked to come up with a list of the people we needed to run our groups ass= uming NNG doesn't come back, along with a budget based on that headcount). = The people you don't use for your proposed organizations are the ones that= will go to Dynegy under this approach.   At this meeting, we will discuss = our org. charts and try to come up with a consensus proposal that we'd ask = Stan to sign off on and that we'd then propose to Dynegy.  I understand tha= t there are some unresolved issues on how to do this (Phil's question about= how many officers his new group should have, for example) but we need to s= 
Jeff and Jeff--Pls keep me and Kathy Ringblom posted on whatever you find. Thanks. DF Jeffery Fawcett 09/05/2000 01:31 PM 
Jeff, Is it possible for TW to get a copy of the Edison filing at the CPUC?  While the article [shown below] doesn't provide any details, I suspect Edison's complaint echoes earlier allegations against El Paso regarding their sale of the 1.2 Bcf/d block of capacity to their affiliate.  I don't think Transwestern and/or Enron affiliate marketing companies are implicated in this deal at all. Can you confirm this is an ""El Paso only"" problem and not something Enron is being drawn into?  I really appreciate your help here. 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Jeff and Jeff--Pls keep me and Kathy Ringblom posted on whatever you find. Thanks. DF Jeffery Fawcett 09/05/2000 01:31 PM 
Jeff, Is it possible for TW to get a copy of the Edison filing at the CPUC?  While the article [shown below] doesn't provide any details, I suspect Edison's complaint echoes earlier allegations against El Paso regarding their sale of the 1.2 Bcf/d block of capacity to their affiliate.  I don't think Transwestern and/or Enron affiliate marketing companies are implicated in this deal at all. Can you confirm this is an ""El Paso only"" problem and not something Enron is being drawn into?  I really appreciate your help here. 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Dammit Jenkins, don't even joke about stuff like that!  If the market ever realized that I worked here, the stock would go down $10!!!  You think Lay is taking the first step toward Sec. Treas. in the new Bush admin???  That's the rumor I heard a month ago.  Hope all goes well for you in sunny hotlanta. Its 5 below zero here today so your whole Georgia good ole' boy lifestyle thing sounds pretty attractive.  AMF  DF ""Alan Jenkins"" <ajenkins@lanlaw.com> on 12/13/2000 04:35:48 PM 
I trust you guys saw this on the wires today: Enron's stock was off $3-3/16 or 4.1 percent in afternoon trading at $74, following an announcement that Jeff Skilling will become its new chief executive officer on Feb. 12. An analyst, who asked not to be named, said that it had been widely assumed that Drew Fossum would be named CEO; therefore, the company's stock traded lower on the news. 
What a mess.  Keeping discovery at bay should, obviously, continue to be a very high priority for us.  Let me know if these strange events signal an increased likelihood that Gynberg will be able to pursue discovery.  Thanks. df STACI HOLTZMAN 12/11/2000 09:06 AM 
FYI.  (I have not yet had an opportunity to talk to Charlie about any of this.) 
There was a lengthy status conference this afternoon, lasting about an hour and a quarter.  It was marred by extremely poor telephone connections.  The technical difficulties frustrated the parties and the judge and made the conference a mess. Without trying to summarize the conference, I note a few things that the Court decided to do based on the discussions. 1.   Quinque.  Judge Downes agreed to have oral argument on the motion to remand in Quinque on January 3, 2001 at 1:15 p.m. in Casper.  One hour was set aside for argument.  He declined Mike Beatty's suggestion of an additional executive summary of the briefing.  The judge was the first one to suggest the oral argument.  The plaintiffs suggested that the Court rule on the papers, but quickly acquiesced to the Court's suggestion when the defendants said that they wanted argument. 2.    Osterhoudt.   Osterhoudt appeared pro se.  Motion to disqualify Wright's counsel (Phillips & Cohen) and estopping Mr. Wright on some claims. Both Osterhoudt and Wright want oral argument.  Wright defendants and DOJ didn't object.  Osterhoudt was appearing pro se, and so there was a long rambling discussion of the matter.  The judge was reluctant to cut off a pro se party, but ultimately did.  Regrettably, the rambling discussion set the tone for the rest of the call. 3.   Osterhoudt.   Government's motion to dismiss Ousterhoudt's case. Government wants its motion to dismiss Grynberg's valuation claims to be heard at the same time.  The government claims these relator status issues are holding up the Shell $56 million settlement and any future settlements. Grynberg objected to having the motion in Grynberg heard at the same time. Grynberg wants discovery from Wright and the government. 4.    Pending Motions.  The Court, of out frustration at the inability to hear the parties and at the attempts by some to argue the merits of things that the Court was not prepared to address, set down two hours for oral argument on February 22, 2001, at 10:00 a.m. on all pending  motions in Wright and Grynberg that address the jurisdictional issues discussed on the call and the motions to dismiss.  This obviously will create some problems. It was far from clear precisely which motions that the Court had in mind. While there are not that many motions pending, some of the pending government motions likely could affect public disclosure / original source motions that the defendants could, but have not yet, filed.  The defendants have not filed those motions yet because of a desire to first test the complaints on Rule 9(b) grounds. 5.   Discovery.   Parties who want discovery on those issues (Grynberg and probably the Wright defendants) were given one day to present their position by letter to the Court.  Other parties then will have two days to respond. 6.    Liaison Counsel.   The Court designated Tom Nicholas as Liaison Counsel for the defendants in the Wright case and Don Schultz as Liaison Counsel for the defendants in the Quinque case. 7.    February 22 hearing.  Phil Figa, one of Grynberg's lawyers, was given the task of leading the consultation among counsel concerning how the pending motions should be addressed at the hearing and how the time should be divided. Charles D. Tetrault Vinson & Elkins L.L.P. 1455 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20004-1008 ctetrault@velaw.com 202.639.6551 [voice] 202.639.6604 [fax] ++++++CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE+++++ The information in this email may be confidential and/or privileged.  This email is intended to be reviewed by only the individual or organization named above.  If you are not the intended recipient or an authorized representative of the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review, dissemination or copying of this email and its attachments, if any, or the information contained herein is prohibited.  If you have received this email in error, please immediately notify the sender by return email and delete this email from your system.  Thank You 
I don't see any immediate problem.  As long as the advertising didn't interfere with the effectiveness and efficiency of Hot Tap as a tool for satisfying our posting and notice obligations, FERC shouldn't care.  The revenue would be nonjurisdictional and would be treated as such in Northern's or TW's next rate case.  As to the ""type of advertising,"" I can't think of a legal or regulatory reason we need to be picky, but we may want to exclude certain types of services that seem to rely heavily on internet advertising if you know what I mean.  DF Steve Hotte 10/18/2000 01:06 PM 
Shelly/Drew, We  get quite a bit of customer activity on our Hot Tap internet site.  Do you think there would be any legal or regulatory restriction on us offering advertising on that site.  We can be selective on the type of advertising, but would obviously want to choose a vendor that would benefit from exposure to the Hot Tap audience. The revenue from such an idea varies.  If it passes the legal and regulatory test I will look into potential customers and firm up some figures. Thanks, Steve 
Pls give me a call. DF 
pls print and hand to me.  DF 
OK by me.  dF Martha Benner 10/17/2000 01:19 PM 
Next week I would like to take Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning off (the 23rd/24th) if that is okay with your schedules.  Will use my Mike Moran day. Thank you. Martha 
Lee, I did get your draft.  Sorry I didn't get to it right away.  My comments are attached.  Please review and make sure I didn't exaggerate the obligation too much.  I agree that Stuart should take a look.  Thanks. DF LEE HUBER 10/12/2000 05:04 PM Sent by: Denise LaGesse 
Drew, Do you thnk we should send to Stuart Ford (V&E) to take a look at? Lee 
Looks good to me  wiht Tony's revision.  DF Tony Pryor 10/16/2000 03:39 PM 
Steve, I understand that NNG Credit must approve a party prior to rheir bidding on EOL for NNG capacity. I have made one suggested revision to the customer letter (see attached, in bold) to clarify that fact. Let me know what you think. 
This looks good to me.  Legal is still OK with this approach.  DF Tony Pryor 10/16/2000 02:25 PM 
Julia and Steve, per your request today, I am rerouting the sample product description. 
I'm not sure if this is automatic or if you have to actually do something to make sure it happens, but either way, THANK YOU!  Flying on this flight stinks and it would be even worse in the back of the bus!!  DF 
SALES AGT: TR/X4Z8S7 FOSSUM/DREW ETKT RECEIPT **REVIEW UPGRADE BELOW** ENRON OMA DATE:  OCT 11 2000 SERVICE               DATE  FROM           TO             DEPART  ARRIVE HOTEL                 10OCT DOUBLETREE HOUSTON ALLEN CENTER 11OCT 400 DALLAS STREET HOUSTON, TX 77002 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TELEPHONE: (713) 759-0202 FAX: (713) 759-9605 CONFIRMATION: 85361656 REFERENCE: B1KENR SINGLE ROOM KING SIZE BED RATE: ENR USD 124.00 PER NIGHT GUARANTEE GIVEN ZD311865888 ENRON CORP RQST NONSMKG KING TO AVOID BILLING CANCEL BY 4PM DAY OF ARRIVAL CONTINENTAL AIRLINES  11OCT HOUSTON TX     OMAHA NE       830P    1049P CO 1467    F          WED   G.BUSH INTERCO EPPLEY AIRFIEL TERMINAL C NON STOP RESERVATION CONFIRMED         2:09 DURATION AIRCRAFT: BOEING 737-300 SEAT 01E NO SMOKING CONFIRMED FOSSUM/DREW(IDS FIRST CLASS UPGRADE IS CONFIRMED. MISCELLANEOUS         10DEC HOUSTON TX SUN   ** THANK YOU FOR USING THE TAP ** FOSSUM/DREW  S1C0366R1116 CO  FREQUENT FLYER COHF518933 NTL TVLRS: CARRY SOS WALLET CARD W/ENRONASSISTANCE INFO CALL SOS: IN U.S 800 523-6586/INTL 215 245-4707 (COLLECT) ********************************************** THIS IS THE PASSENGER RECEIPT FOR YOUR ELECTRONIC TICKET. PLEASE CHECK-IN WITH PHOTO IDENTIFICATION AND WITH EITHER (1) THIS RECEIPT OR (2) YOUR CONFIRMATION NUMBER. YOUR ETKT CONFIRMATION NUMBER IS: I 2 E J 7 H 
I agree with your concern but I've gotten comfortable that the pleading does a good job of finessing the issue.  Technically, you are right and PNM's service is neither ""firm"" or ""interruptible.""  It is my understanding that PNM  assigns priority based on a number of factors including whether the customer is a core customer or not, et cet.  I think that PNM is capable of determining on a contract by contract basis whether the capacity will be firm, even though the rate schedule may not say ""firm.""   Explaining all that complexity would make it unlikely that FERC would approve the rehearing. Nevertheless, I believe its accurate to say that we will only repackage as firm service the capacity that we buy from PNM and that they tell us is ""firm.""  I think the draft does that, without going throught the unhelpful detail on how PNM handles its own priority system.  If I misunderstand the facts or if anyone disagrees with this approach, lets talk about it.  DF 
OK.  DF Christine Stokes 10/12/2000 03:33 PM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE COMPANY CONTRACT APPROVAL FORM Please review the attached standard discount letter to Agave Energy Company (Agave).  The discount letter provides Agave a $.05/Dth/d one-part rate for 10,000 Dth/d of East of Thoreau capacity beginning 3/1/2001.  Alternate receipt and delivery rights have been granted for the East of Thoreau Area only. Please reply via REPLY WITH HISTORY. 
Many apologies comrade!  By the way, ""organization"" is spelled with a ""z"" not an ""s"" in American English.  Or do you write in English American now?  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 10/13/2000 10:07 AM 
he manages the Americas, I manage everything outside the Americas.  his changes do not affect me or my organisation, smartass!  mcs Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
What's up?  Did Rick fire you?  Or does he work for you now?  DF 
FYI:  Attached is a memo from Rick Shapiro outlining organizational changes in the Government Affairs group, most significantly the appointment of a new head of the Washington office. This is a great time to be at Enron. The challenges and opportunities at Enron seem to be expanding with every passing day.  This presents enormous challenges for Government Affairs as a group and for each of us individually.  As we discussed at the staff meeting last month, this requires us to constantly reevaluate our priorities, our methods of getting things done, and whether our organization is properly structured to meet the needs of the entire company.  While we have done an outstanding job as a group within our current structure, changes are necessary at this time. The primary change in the organizational structure is to complete the assignments for and reinforce the leadership roles of the individuals within the group who have primary responsibility for setting the Government Affairs strategy and agenda for the respective Enron operating companies. The below mentioned individuals will have the following responsibilities: 1.   Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets:  Jim Steffes 2.   The Enron Energy Services Group of Companies:  Harry Kingerski 3.   Enron Broadband Services:  Sue Nord 4.   Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks:  Lisa Yoho 5.   Enron South America:  Jose Bestard 6.   Federal Government Affairs:  Linda Robertson With the impending retirement on March 31, 2001 of Joe Hillings, I am pleased to announce that Linda Robertson will be joining the office on November 6, 2000, as a Vice President who will immediately assume responsibility for leading the Federal Government Affairs group in our Washington office.  Linda was a Congressional staffer and partner/principal in two Washington law firms prior to spending the last eight years with the U.S. Department of Treasury, the last five as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs and Public Liaison, for Secretaries Rubin & Summers.  Linda brings a terrific background, both in energy and financial services, and is a welcome addition to our team.  In order to more effectively integrate the Government Affairs groups and strategy in Washington, the Federal Regulatory Affairs group under Joe Hartsoe's direction will also report to Linda.  Joe Hartsoe will also retain primary responsibility for NERC activities, although Charles Yeung and Dick Ingersoll will have a dotted line reporting relationship to Jim Steffes in his capacity of directing our activities for ENA.  Ray Alvarez will be transferring from his current role with Transredes in Bolivia during the 1st quarter of 2001 and will join the Federal Regulatory Affairs group, reporting to Joe Hartsoe. On a personal note, I would like to acknowledge the significant contributions that Joe Hillings has made to this company in his eighteen years of service.  Joe's work ethic, intellect, and integrity have established Enron as a company that is respected throughout Washington.  I will have more to say about this as Joe's retirement draws closer, but I look to him to be a vital part of the leadership transition in our Washington office that will occur over the next days and weeks. I will be relying heavily on the above-identified six individuals to ensure that Government Affairs is firmly embedded within each of our operating companies; that we as a group thoroughly understand their current business strategies as well as new directions they may be taking in the future; and, most importantly, to thoroughly understand how our organization can contribute and add value to each of these companies on a continuing basis. Communicating that understanding on a regular basis to the rest of the Government Affairs organization and developing a Government Affairs wide execution strategy will be a key objective for each of these individuals. In order to ensure the success of these individuals and the Government Affairs organization; the following changes are being made. In addition to his leadership role with Government Affairs on behalf of the EES group of companies, Harry Kingerski will continue to head up the rates/regulatory group, now renamed Government Affairs Support Services. This group will continue to provide valuable technical support services throughout Government Affairs and will be expanding its scope of expertise over the next months to some of the new markets that the company has and will soon be entering.  Nancy Hetrick and Vinio Floris will join this organization and report to Harry. Jeff Brown, Tom Delaney, Mary Hain, Ron McNamara, Christi Nicolay, Thane Twiggs, and Steve Walton will now report to Jim Steffes in his role supporting Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets. Alberto Levy will be relocating from our Caracas, Venezuela office and will also report to Jim.  A couple of special mentions:  Jeff Brown has done an outstanding job in leading the CUBR (Coalition for Uniform Business Rules) process over the last year and his current leadership of the Midwest ISO and Alliance RTO efforts for Enron will be critical to the development of well functioning wholesale electric markets in the U.S. It is also my hope that Steve Walton will play an increased leadership role across North America on wholesale electric market issues.  The incredible knowledge that Steve Walton possesses of the electric industry, coupled with his industry-wide credibility, will provide much needed support to our wholesale electric market reform efforts across North America. Tom Hoatson will now report to Steve Montovano in his new role in supporting the company's efforts at PJM.  Tom will also continue to be an organization-wide resource on technical issues regarding generation interconnection and distributed generation.  Kathleen Sullivan has recently joined Steve's group from Azurix and will be primarily assisting Howard Fromer in New York. Sue Nord will head up the group that supports EBS.  Scott Bolton and Donald Lassere, while reporting to Sue, will continue to provide leadership on telecommunications issues.  Scott and Donald have done outstanding work and will continue to be integral to our efforts in this area. Finally, the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process, beginning 1/1/01, will be extended to all of Government Affairs in North America, including Federal Government Affairs and Mexico.  The RCR Committee, beginning immediately, will be expanded and will consist of Harry Kingerski, Sue Nord,  Linda Roberston, Jim Steffes, Lisa Yoho & myself. Please feel free to call me if you have any questions. Thank you 
pls print.  thanks df 
Please Note: We have changed the correlation of the Transwestern's hedges to the same index(El Paso Permian) that the derivatives were transacted.  We feel it is appropriate to make this correlation change due to management's anticipation to make the 2001 sales at an El Paso Permian index.  Due to this change TW has a perfect correlation, therefore the associated Value at Risk  will be zero. 
What's up?  Did Rick fire you?  Or does he work for you now?  DF 
FYI:  Attached is a memo from Rick Shapiro outlining organizational changes= =20 in the Government Affairs group, most significantly the appointment of a ne= w=20 head of the Washington office. This is a great time to be at Enron. The challenges and opportunities at=20 Enron seem to be expanding with every passing day.  This presents enormous= =20 challenges for Government Affairs as a group and for each of us=20 individually.  As we discussed at the staff meeting last month, this requir= es=20 us to constantly reevaluate our priorities, our methods of getting things= =20 done, and whether our organization is properly structured to meet the needs= =20 of the entire company.  While we have done an outstanding job as a group=20 within our current structure, changes are necessary at this time. The primary change in the organizational structure is to complete the=20 assignments for and reinforce the leadership roles of the individuals withi= n=20 the group who have primary responsibility for setting the Government Affair= s=20 strategy and agenda for the respective Enron operating companies.  The belo= w=20 mentioned individuals will have the following responsibilities: 1. Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets:  Jim Steffes 2. The Enron Energy Services Group of Companies:  Harry Kingerski 3. Enron Broadband Services:  Sue Nord 4. Enron Global Markets and Enron Networks:  Lisa Yoho 5. Enron South America:  Jose Bestard 6. Federal Government Affairs:  Linda Robertson With the impending retirement on March 31, 2001 of Joe Hillings, I am pleas= ed=20 to announce that Linda Robertson will be joining the office on November 6,= =20 2000, as a Vice President who will immediately assume responsibility for=20 leading the Federal Government Affairs group in our Washington office.  Lin= da=20 was a Congressional staffer and partner/principal in two Washington law fir= ms=20 prior to spending the last eight years with the U.S. Department of Treasury= ,=20 the last five as Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs and Public=20 Liaison, for Secretaries Rubin & Summers.  Linda brings a terrific=20 background, both in energy and financial services, and is a welcome additio= n=20 to our team.  In order to more effectively integrate the Government Affairs= =20 groups and strategy in Washington, the Federal Regulatory Affairs group und= er=20 Joe Hartsoe=01,s direction will also report to Linda.  Joe Hartsoe will als= o=20 retain primary responsibility for NERC activities, although Charles Yeung a= nd=20 Dick Ingersoll will have a dotted line reporting relationship to Jim Steffe= s=20 in his capacity of directing our activities for ENA.  Ray Alvarez will be= =20 transferring from his current role with Transredes in Bolivia during the 1s= t=20 quarter of 2001 and will join the Federal Regulatory Affairs group, reporti= ng=20 to Joe Hartsoe. On a personal note, I would like to acknowledge the significant contributio= ns=20 that Joe Hillings has made to this company in his eighteen years of service= . =20 Joe=01,s work ethic, intellect, and integrity have established Enron as a= =20 company that is respected throughout Washington.  I will have more to say= =20 about this as Joe=01,s retirement draws closer, but I look to him to be a v= ital=20 part of the leadership transition in our Washington office that will occur= =20 over the next days and weeks. I will be relying heavily on the above-identified six individuals to ensure= =20 that Government Affairs is firmly embedded within each of our operating=20 companies; that we as a group thoroughly understand their current business= =20 strategies as well as new directions they may be taking in the future; and,= =20 most importantly, to thoroughly understand how our organization can=20 contribute and add value to each of these companies on a continuing basis. = =20 Communicating that understanding on a regular basis to the rest of the=20 Government Affairs organization and developing a Government Affairs wide=20 execution strategy will be a key objective for each of these individuals. In order to ensure the success of these individuals and the Government=20 Affairs organization; the following changes are being made. In addition to his leadership role with Government Affairs on behalf of the= =20 EES group of companies, Harry Kingerski will continue to head up the=20 rates/regulatory group, now renamed Government Affairs Support Services.  = =20 This group will continue to provide valuable technical support services=20 throughout Government Affairs and will be expanding its scope of expertise= =20 over the next months to some of the new markets that the company has and wi= ll=20 soon be entering.  Nancy Hetrick and Vinio Floris will join this organizati= on=20 and report to Harry. Jeff Brown, Tom Delaney, Mary Hain, Ron McNamara, Christi Nicolay, Thane=20 Twiggs, and Steve Walton will now report to Jim Steffes in his role=20 supporting Enron North America and Enron Industrial Markets. Alberto Levy= =20 will be relocating from our Caracas, Venezuela office and will also report = to=20 Jim.  A couple of special mentions:  Jeff Brown has done an outstanding job= =20 in leading the CUBR (Coalition for Uniform Business Rules) process over the= =20 last year and his current leadership of the Midwest ISO and Alliance RTO=20 efforts for Enron will be critical to the development of well functioning= =20 wholesale electric markets in the U.S.  It is also my hope that Steve Walto= n=20 will play an increased leadership role across North America on wholesale=20 electric market issues.  The incredible knowledge that Steve Walton possess= es=20 of the electric industry, coupled with his industry-wide credibility, will= =20 provide much needed support to our wholesale electric market reform efforts= =20 across North America. Tom Hoatson will now report to Steve Montovano in his new role in supportin= g=20 the company=01,s efforts at PJM.  Tom will also continue to be an=20 organization-wide resource on technical issues regarding generation=20 interconnection and distributed generation.  Kathleen Sullivan has recently= =20 joined Steve=01,s group from Azurix and will be primarily assisting Howard= =20 Fromer in New York. Sue Nord will head up the group that supports EBS.  Scott Bolton and Donald= =20 Lassere, while reporting to Sue, will continue to provide leadership on=20 telecommunications issues.  Scott and Donald have done outstanding work and= =20 will continue to be integral to our efforts in this area. Finally, the Resource Commitment Review (RCR) process, beginning 1/1/01, wi= ll=20 be extended to all of Government Affairs in North America, including Federa= l=20 Government Affairs and Mexico.  The RCR Committee, beginning immediately,= =20 will be expanded and will consist of Harry Kingerski, Sue Nord,  Linda=20 Roberston, Jim Steffes, Lisa Yoho & myself. Please feel free to call me if you have any questions. Thank you 
FYI:  more O&M gymnastics, but so far no impact on law.  DF 
In order to reduce net O&M by $7.9MM on NNG and $3.8MM on TW, I propose the following additions to overhead.  Per Rod, we will leave Gross O&M where it is and increase the overhead allocations.  These dollars will be added to the Capital Budget via an increased overhead rate.  Once finalized, I will calculate the new overhead rate and send it to you so we can add these dollars to the construction projects. Please review this proposal and let me know by Friday if we need to make adjustments.  There is still a hole of $1.2MM on TW that we need to fill in order to cover the Environmental Remediation/PCB costs without reducing them. NORTHERN NATURAL GAS: Direct: 0.5   -   Marketing (brings net flat to 3CE) 2.7   -   Operations (brings net flat to 3CE) 2.0   -   IT (brings captalized portion of total IT back up to 3CE levels) 5.2   -   Total Direct 1.6   -   ETS Operations (brings captalized portion back up to 3CE levels @ 35%) 0.3   -   ETS Executive (5%) 0.5   -   ETS IT (brings captalized portion of total IT back up to 3CE levels) 0.3   -   Corporate Direct (4%) 2.7   -   Total ETS/Corporate 7.9   -   Total Decrease in Net O&M / Increase in Overhead TRANSWESTERN: Direct: ?   -   Marketing (already below 3CE) 1.2   -   Operations (brings net flat to 3CE) 1.2   -   ??? (Operations?? - need to cover increased PG&E PCB of 1.0 & Env. Rem. of 1.4) 0.8   -   IT (brings captalized portion back up to 3CE levels) 3.2   -   Total Direct 0.3   -   ETS Operations (35%) 0.1   -   ETS Executive (5%) 0.1   -   ETS IT (20%) 0.1   -   Corporate Direct (5%) 0.6   -   Total ETS/Corporate 3.8   -   Total Decrease in Net O&M / Increase in Overhead Thanks,  Elaine 
Stan is now the president of Northern.  Dari, have you seen any changes to the org. charts etc. to reflect this?  DF 
OK.  df 
Please approve Susan's expense report, and copy me on your approval.  Thanks! 
OK.  df 
Please approve Susan's expense report, and copy me on your approval.  Thanks! 
Optional.  (to this meeting, I mean!) df Martha Benner 10/11/2000 10:13 AM 
Are you critical or optional?  To this meeting I mean! Thanks..... 
for calendar.  thanks df 
Did you all see the blurb in Sep. 29 gas daily on Williams' deal with PROS on a revenue management system?  May be useful to use with our management if 
Audit 
pls print.  thanks df 
It's that time of year again.  In connection with our 2000 audit, we are coordinating a meeting to go over the legal, environmental, and regulatory issues for ETS.  Attached is the proposed agenda for the meeting.  Let me know if I have not contacted all the right people for this meeting so that I may include them.  Call me if you have any questions.  Thanks. Heather x37726 
Audit 
Im big on togetherness, but if you'd rather do separate meetings I'm ok with that also.  DF 10/06/2000 12:26 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 10/06/2000 12:26 PM 10/06/2000 12:26 PM 
jan - get back with tracey... drew - do you want a combined meeting or split things up???  naturally, i'd prefer to split things up so you have no idea what i am doing to your p/ls.... 
I am trying to schedule a meeting with the following people for Heather Mueck. Drew Fossum Mary Kay Miller Louis Soldano Bob Chandler Elaine Concklin William Kendrick Allison Millan Elan Britt Gerrad Heep Regarding: ETS Legal, Environmental, and Regulatory Issues Meeting - 2000 Audit Please send me you availability on the following dates October 10 October 12 October 16 October 19 I am going to try and get the video conference room for this meeting Let me know ASAP so I can make the arrangements Thank you Tracey Bouillion 
pls print.  thanks df 
Sorry, the attachment was left off the first  e-mail. - RP96-347 Req or Rehg.doc 
Great to hear from you!  I'll forward this to the smart guys and see if they have any interest.  Let me know which pipes you'll interconnect with and we'll have a better sense of who else in the organization might be interested.  Kent and Morgan, when we get Tony's response on the interconnects, can you think it through from Florida's perspective also? Thanks.  DF ""Tony Clark"" <ajc@infohwy.com> on 10/05/2000 09:47:42 AM 
Hello Mr. Fossum, I thought I would drop you a line  to say hello and let you know we are still alive.? We are currently in the  process of securing the land and minerals to build a high deliverability storage  project in Texas. In several weeks we will be in a position to present the  project to you if there is any interest. SGR?will build the facility for a  prospective buyer and can arrange financing of the project to accommodate a  buyers needs.? Preliminary project specs are as follows: ? ?Two 8 bcf caverns total working gas capacity  of 16 bcf facility.(Designed to accommodate expansion while in  operation) ?Bi-directional access to 4 interstate  pipelines and 3 intrastate pipelines. 1.2 to 1.6 bcfpd?withdrawal and 400 to 600  mmcfpd of injection. The facility will be designed to meet optimum  flexibility to meet commercial dispatch requirements. The facility can commence commercial operations by  fourth qtr 2002. Preliminary costs estimates to build? $8  million per bcf of capacity. Recent comps for storage facility sales  transactions have sold for?$17 to $26 million per bcf of  capacity. ?Let us know. ? Take Care T. Clark 
Eric, I think it would be good for you to join us for this meeting.  We're following up on some concerns that arose during the Conoco case about inadequate compliance with Enron document retention policies.  I'm not sure that this subject is within your turf down there, but your historical experience may be useful. 
Great!!  Here's my question--what responsibility does the legal department have to publicize/enforce the Enron document retention policy in other departments?  If it isn't our responsibility, whose is it?  I'm concerned based on our experience in the Conoco case that most departments (occasionally including law) simply ignore the policy. I think this subject matter is so interesting that I'm asking the regulatory, marketing, and market services departments to send a designated representative to attend.   Mary Kay and Julia--please have someone on your staff whose responsibility includes managing your inventory of paper join us in the VCRs on Oct 10 at 1:30.  We'll be reviewing the Enron document retention policies and how to improve our compliance within NN and TW. Julia, for your group Rick or someone in his group would probably be best. MKM, I'm not sure who is the best person from your group.  Steve, I suspect you are the right guy from marketing mostly because you've got more experience in the regulatory/legal discovery area than most of your colleagues down there.  Sorry. If each of the Marketing, Mkt Services, and Regulatory representatives could bring what they believe is the current document retention policy/schedule for your group, that would be helpful. Thanks.  DF Kathy Ringblom 10/03/2000 04:50 PM 
Yes, it's only one week away!  A riveting and thought-provoking discussion on document retention!  (Drew's staff meeting on October 10th)   Please submit your questions early so that Colleen and I can provide a thorough answer at the meeting. (Seriously, if there's anything specific you would like to know or if you have any questions about document retention, let Colleen or me know.  Thanks!) 
pls print.  thanks df 
Here's the form Tana sent me. Let's look at it and finalize an intra-company contract between NNG and TW. 
this answers when and where 
please find out when/where this meeting is and get me in on it--also, is this attachment the same document that Tony sent me and I sent to you to print? thanks df 
pls print.  thanks df 
Drew, here's the revised draft...............Tony 
John, great to hear that you are still doing the Lord's work on this case! Sounds like you have things well in hand and that the appeal argument went well.  Good luck on this one and please let me know how it turns out--in fact, please send me a copy of the appellate decision when issued at this email address or by mail at 1111 S. 103d St. Omaha Nebraska, 68124.  Thanks. DF ""John Wyss"" <JWyss@WRF.com> on 10/02/2000 12:52:31 PM 
We argued the Bath appeal in the Second Circuit last Friday.  Bath's counsel went first for 10 minutes; I was second for 8 minutes; Alan Knauf was next for CREST for 2 minutes; David Connors took 2 minutes for TPC; and Bath's counsel took the final 2 minutes for rebuttal.  The panel took the matter under advisement when the argument was finished. The panel was Judge Jacobs (who was on the recent Primetime 24 Joint Venture case dealing with the ""access barring"" sham exception to Noerr- Pennington), Judge Straub and Judge Sacks.  All three are from private practice with large firms. The argument went reasonably well, although the panel played it pretty close to the vest.  Bath's counsel was not brilliant and received a lot of hard questions from the bench.  The panel seemed to have no trouble with the fact that the District Court reviewed the administrative record in addition to the allegations in Bath's complaint.  They got close to getting a concession from Bath's counsel that the complaint alleges damages from long delays in the administrative process, which necessarily puts at issue the overall course of the agency proceedings and requires the judge to review the record. The panel also seemed uninterested in Bath's argument that Noerr-Pennington immunity only applies to antitrust cases.  The panel recognized that the First Amendment protections must apply to all types of causes of action. The biggest issue for the panel appeared to be the ""fraud"" sham exception to Noerr-Pennington.  During argument, Bath's counsel suggested that, if only he had discovery, he would be able to prove that MHP's experts had ""doctored"" the geological data as part of submitting their fraudulent affidavits.  I countered that this was the first we had ever heard of such allegations, that they were never part of Bath's complaint, and that the only allegation was that the expert's ""opinions"" were wrong and without basis. The court came back to the question of what to do if a party claims that there has been clear fraud committed during the agency proceeding.  I argued, and Judge Straub agreed, that such fraud is only relevant under the case law if it goes to the very core of the proceeding and deprives it of its legitimacy.  The district court's opinion establishes that noting like that occurred here. Finally, both I and David Connors argued that the lower court's alternative proximate cause ruling was independently fatal to Bath's complaint, in that the alleged ""fraud"", even if it had occurred, did not cause any of Bath's alleged damages. Please call me (202-719-7038) if you would like further details regarding the argument.  Otherwise, we will just have to wait for the decision. 
Sorry, just got back from Houston and my duties require me to be in the big O for a few days.  Enerson and I were just talking about you on Friday--I'm forwarding this to him so he can take you out and feed you.  Hope all goes well.  Give me a ring if you have a few minutes and I'll give you the update on what's going on up here (dial 87-7449 in case you've forgotten how to dial us from world headquarters).  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 10/02/2000 10:35 AM 
I am in Houston today, tomorow, and through Wed. to 1400.  If either or both of you guys are in Houston and free for lunch, let me know.   mcs 
Thanks Brian.  I'd delete "", oil and gas pipeline"" and replace it with ""utility"" at the end of line 3 to make it a bit broader.  Also, I've run this by Lou and Dot for their input.  If they are OK, pls post it and email the final back to me.   Thanks.  df Brian Schaffer 04/04/2001 04:19 PM 
Laura: Here's an updated version of the posting based upon Drew's comments. Drew: Feel free to take one more crack at it if necessary.  Otherwise, we'll have it up on various sites.  Laura and I will scan resumes received and bring to your attention any viable candidates. Brian ---------------------------------- Assistant General Counsel Enron Transportation Services is seeking a Commercial/Transactional Attorney with a minimum of 7-10 years of transaction-based and regulatory experience at a major law firm or corporation.  Candidate must have significant experience in drafting, negotiating, and closing complex commercial agreements in a regulated, oil and gas pipeline environment.  This position requires close interaction with clients and external counsel, strategic business development skills, solid knowledge of federal regulatory requirements, risk management and assessment experience, and strong project finance exposure.   Strong academic credentials, excellent analytical, organizational and written skills required. 
Is it appropriate for a conference sponsor to use our name like this???  Th= ey've twisted our attendence into something approaching an endorsement.  Sh= ould we send a nasty letter?  df Lee Huber 04/04/2001 09:33 AM 
FYI 
Great.  I've put in a couple of minor changes--pls crank out a clean (non redlined) copy and email it back to me.  For now, lets take out the sentence indicating Sempra's agreement.  Also, delete the privilege header.  I want Georgetta to have a clean copy she can circulate internally in her shop.  In my cover email to her I'll suggest the sentence I'd like to be able to include.  MKM and others--please let me know if I'm good to go on sending this to Georgetta.  Thanks.  df ""Hirasuna, Robert"" <rhirasuna@AkinGump.com> on 04/03/2001 06:10:16 PM 
Thanks for the prompt info!!  I hope we can help this guy get his power plant built.  DF 
no--golf's great!  df 
pls follow up on this.  I can't remember if I've rsvpd or not. thanks.  df 
Got lunch plans?  Lets talk about this at 12:30--my joint.  (I'll buy) df 
Sounds like you guys are turning back into regular yankees!  I'm sure your = poor kids are freezing their butts off.  Tell them spring is just around th= e corner--and down the street a block or two.  We won't move until summer, = but I'm down at Planet Houston 3 days a week on average.  I'm pretty flexib= le so let me know if you can make it to OMA or HOU and feel free to rack ou= t with me in either place.  The OMA joint has more room and more chow in th= e frig, but I've got a rockin' bachelor pad apt. in downtown hou that ain't= bad either.  Give me a couple of days notice and I'll get 'Stros tickets a= t Enron Field.  We get paid in baseball tickets now since the stock options= are all worthless.  (but don't ask Egert or Carmany about that).  Good luc= k on the new gig--you always rag being 3d guy on 727s, but it sounds better= than being co-driver on the Airbus (i.e., the ""Renault of the skies"").  Al= l you have to do is make the friendly announcement about how long the fligh= t will be and then sit around listening to your 8 tracks.  Adios dude.  df = =20 ""sackreiters"" <sackreiters@compuserve.com>@compuserve.com on 03/31/2001 07:= 53:40 PM Sent by:sackreiters@compuserve.com 
Dude(ett)s, Well, we all made it to Crystal Lake (Chicago).  I've driven two cars 1200 miles each in the last two weeks, but I was by myself so I could haul butt at least.  We're ""camping"" in the house since our household goods won't be here 'til late in the week.  It turns out that the driver is from Oklahoma, so he's taking a vacation on the way here.  ""So I got that going for 
Sorry, I read the other email first--you guys have me covered quite well.  I think the staff meeting formerly known as Mikes is on Tuesday Mar. 3, right Emily??  I didn't have anything on my calendar on the 12th.  Emily, you might want to send an email around reminding everyone of the Mar. 3 all-lawyers meeting and the secretary meeting just in case some people are assuming I'll schedule mine at different times.  Thanks all. 
Lou--could you cover the Derrick meeting on the 12th if Dot is stuck on a hanging jury?    Again, I expect to be on the phone from Cal., but would like one of you guys on also in Houston in case of telecom screwups (which follow me whereever I go).  Thanks.  df 
The Market Services bullets listed a capacity release deal between MUD and Oxy at 102% of max. rates.  Please let me know whatever we know about that 
This sounds great--I take it that they are still seeking interconnects with us and El Paso, but it sounds like an FT agreement for most or all of their MDQ may be likely.  Super.  df 
pls print for me--I can't access a printer.  thanks df 
Please review the attached-- none of our changes were accepted and I would say it includes alot more than edits!!!! We need to discuss our response back asap.  MK 
Mary Kay As we discussed yesterday, please find attached three (3) documents - A redlined Strangers' Gas contract, a Release Agreement, and a calculation of the amount of $$ netting changed OFS' Strangers Gas payments.  Please review all of these and give us a call when you are ready to discuss. Sincerely Steve Winston (See attached file: NNG Strangers Gas Final Proposal1.DOC)(See attached file: NNG Strangers Gas Release.DOC)(See attached file: StrangersNet.xls) - NNG Strangers Gas Final Proposal1.DOC - NNG Strangers Gas Release.DOC - StrangersNet.xls 
Are we still considering adding ETS-owned generation at one or more of the TW compressor stations in Arizona or NM?  In case that is still a possibility, let me pass on something we may want to follow up on.  I called an old law partner of mine from DC who is now in the generation development business this week to have lunch and catch up.  This guy says he has come up with a good formula for getting new generation built fast and cheap.  He's got an 80mw nameplate simple cycle project (two frame 6 turbines) under development in Utah that he started development on a month ago and is projected to go in service on July 1.  Pretty quick work compared to other projects I've seen.  Here's his racket: 1.  He gets used, first quality turbines that have been well maintained.  His Utah turbines are something like 2 year old GE units that he bought from Tokyo Electric (he said they had 4000 hours on them and were maintained in typical electric utility gold plated style).  He didn't say, but I suspect there is no warranty on the units.  Obviously, this isn't a bold new strategy, but this guy claims to have a good handle on available used equipment. 2.  His siting/permitting strategy is to use ""brownfield"" sites--i.e., existing industrial or utility infrastructure is there along with some existing air emissions sources.  His Utah site is at the Magnesium Corp. of America plant on the Great Salt Lake. Magcorp is an ex-client of mine and I know it is a huge emissions source and has no Nimby issues.  Our compressor sites, in contrast, are not major emissions sites but may have some other things in common with this strategy. 3.  Here's a mysterious one--he says the financing is backstopped by the site owner (Magcorp in his project, potentially us if we do a TW project) but the corporate structure he has designed results in the power plant being treated as a non-controlled, non-affiliated entity for air permitting purposes.  That means the power plant emissions are not treated as part of the same emissions source as the host/site.  I'm not sure how/whether this works in a TW scenario, but it might be worth looking at.  We'd need to make sure that any power plant deal we chase doesn't screw up the timetable on the RedRock expansion application at FERC.  MKM--if we could preserve the ""separate source"" concept for air permitting purposes, could we even start work on developing a power project soon or would we be better off to wait until we have a FERC certificate in hand?? 
That's a better idea.  df 
This may be a good idea, but lets not forget that BP is the entity formerly known as ""BP Amoco"" which, if I'm not mistaken, is the home of Jeff Hooligan.  That guy sees evil in every pipeline deal,a nd may not have even known that his commercial people were doing deals with TW.  I'd like to think that the commercial people at BP have more clout than Hooligan and Kathy Edwards, but I wouldn't bet the ranch on that.  df 
I've asked Fran to reschedule this--sorry.  df 
Yes, lets continue to have the pre-meetings formerly known as Mike's every Mon. at 8:30 (pls put on my calendar Emily).  I'll be in Houston this Monday so just come to my office at 8:30 if you are both here.  Dot, pls cover the staff meeting on Monday, April 9 as I'll be on vacation.  Also, pls cover the Derrick large GC meeting at 9:00 am on April 12 as I'll be at NN's Keyex meeting in Cal.  (I may be able to call in to this but would like you to cover anyway in case something goes haywire). Thanks df 
Here are the stray facts I mentioned: Sulfur River system:  1200 miles of gathering in East Texas and some treating/processing approx. 170 mmcf/d of throughput currently; significant growth expected from new drilling [?] EBITDA:  $40mm/yr Rex Kouri (sp?) is the founding equity in Sulfur River  (I haven't heard of him, but they acted like I should have) An outfit named ""Energy Spectrum"" put $30 mm in equity into Sulfur River a few years ago and thinks now would be a good time to cash out $90 mm in debt $1/mmbtu gath/proc. margins The guys I talked to said the Sulfur River assets, coupled with the Koch upstream assets in the area, would make an interesting combined play. Koch was asking $200 mil. for their gathering assets a year ago or so--I don't know if its the exact set of assets that Pat and Jerry were suggesting we'd want to include in the package. The two guys involved are Pat Keeley, of Friedman Billings and Ramsay in DC and Jerry Langdon (the ex-FERC Commissioner), who is an investor/dealmaker.  Let me know if you want me to get these guys to come in and pitch this deal to you/your team.  Reminder--Langdon is talking to Stan on the 10th on EOTT and he may bug Stan about this stuff, so it may be good to get to Stan first.  DF 
pls get the Quarter Forecast Meeting on my schedule.  thanks df 
OK.  DF 
Please approve the attached expense report and forward it to accounting with 
the bid/asked spread narrows as you go out in time also--weird.  I'll come down and grab you guys in a minute as I have a few questions.  Thanks.  DF 
pls print.  thanks df 
In advance of our meeting this afternoon, I thought I'd put out a few agenda topics 
I could see accruing $100,000 for legal fees on the ONeOk arbitration--which will be concluded in May.  We could also reserve against OneOk's counterclaim--which is about $4 million.  We expect a final arbitration decision 15 days after close of the hearing which should be well within the 2d quarter.  We may decide to use post-hearing briefs, however, which might push the decision into the third quarter.  Let me know if either of these is worth pursuing.  DF 
Tell him I'm already migrated to Windows 2000, but that they just havent' put outlook on it yet. Maybe that will help.  df 
I need to get on msoft outlook asap and get off lotus notes.  To accomplish that, I'd like CMS contract approval emails to go to Tony for the south end end and Dari for the North end, for discussion with me orally and approval on their computers.  Can we do this??   If not, we need a better system that allows me to get off lotus notes.  thanks. df <Embedded StdOleLink> <Embedded Picture (Device Independent Bitmap)> <Embedded Picture (Device Independent Bitmap)> 
pls print.  thanks df 
pls print for me.  thanks df 
Great.  DF 
Thanks Jean!  Emily--sounds like it will happen soon.  DF 
I need to get on msoft outlook asap and get off lotus notes.  To accomplish that, I'd like CMS contract approval emails to go to Tony for the south end end and Dari for the North end, for discussion with me orally and approval on their computers.  Can we do this??   If not, we need a better system that allows me to get off lotus notes.  thanks. df 
Congratulations Adam, and welcome to ETS to both of you!!  You guys may not have heard this, but Mike Moran is retiring and I'm taking over for him as general counsel of the ETS organization.  Does this all mean that I'm your lawyer again just like in the old Zond days???  Weird.  Good luck and best wishes!  DF 
I will be at Derrick's meeting in San Anton. all day (but would rather be at Dot's!)  DF 
I've redlined the outline to address what I believe is the most important risk you guys will face out there:  the risk that FERC will listen to your presentation and conclude that the embedded optionality that some pipelines are currently offering in transport contracts is a negotiated term and condition and therefore must be stopped.  I think we need to tailor the presentation and filing to minimize the chance that FERC will take away flexibility we think we now have (i.e., the flexibility to embed shipper puts in transport contracts).   Even if the TW approach on unbundled options goes nowhere, several of the strategies we may want to implement next year depend on continued ability to sell embedded options.   Susan, Shelley,a nd MKM, I still think it is a good idea to push this proposal, but am concerned that FERC might squirrel and go the opposite direction we are trying to push them.  Your thoughts?  DF Susan Scott 09/28/2000 03:27 PM 
Nancy, I've prepared the attached outline in response to FERC Staff's request that we provide ""something in writing.""  This is basically just a description of our proposal.  I've tried to keep it brief so that staff members are not reading while we're trying to talk to them.  It should be enough information to raise a lot of questions. Please wait until Shelley or I give you the go-ahead to pass this along to the relevant Commission people; I'd like to give the other addressees the opportunity to comment on this to the extent possible. Everyone else:  please give me your comments ASAP as Nancy has been asked to provide something to them tomorrow. 
for my schedule 
Sorry to take so long--Denise Lagesse of our group has graciously volunteered to represent us on this effort.  Please call me directly if you need my input or if I can do anything else to help.  Thanks Denise.  df Mark Greenberg 03/27/2001 10:00 AM 
To All - Just a follow-up message to each of you about the iBuyit program. I am still in need of a designated volunteer from each of your groups to act as a Change Agent for this program.  Since it is a Corp. initiative and will be implemented over time, I need to make sure all areas of the Legal Dept. are on board. Please provide me with the name of at least one person within your group who fits the Change Agent bill.  For those that have forgotten, the Change Agent is defined as follows: 
Please forward this to all ETS lawyers.  DF All:  Please take a look at this article.  El Paso's inartful internal documents are creating the same kind of fun for them that Microsoft had during the recent antitrust unpleasantness.  I know that we can't control the way people think about issues such as market behavior, price strategy, etc.  We can, however, remind ourselves and our clients to be very precise and careful in the way we talk about, and particularly, write about, such issues.  I'd like each of us and our clients to keep problems like El Paso's and Microsoft's in mind when we put pen to paper or fingers to keyboard.  Thanks.  df 
March 20 
Thanks--I appre ciate your willingness to help.  One thought Dot had is that it might make sense to use someone (i.e., Denise or Ja) who does the actual entry of payables into SAP.  Do you do any of that stuff directly on SAP?  Stop by and grab me for a minute and we'll decide who to use for this.  df 
I think we do say that in the ""to the extent we didn't get binding bids for all of the capacity"" sentence.  With that clarification, I think we ought to get this posted and the letters out to shippers.  Susan--make it so.  Thanks.  df 
Here are my comments--I'd like to take out the stuff about the rate and any implication that we have flexible terms and conditions.  DF 
FYI.  Feel free to sit in so you have a better sense of what you might face  at the CPUC workshop on the 17th.  I'm not sure where we'll do this--probably either Shelley's or Steve's office.  DF 
Here are my comments--I'd like to take out the stuff about the rate and any implication that we have flexible terms and conditions.  DF 
Got any ideas on who would be the best person in our group to work on this?  Thanks.  df 
To All - I have been asked to be the Legal Department stakeholder for the final development and implementation of the iBuyit program.  Basically, iBuyit is an intranet based procurement and payables systems being developed for implementation across Enron.  It is intended that this system will become the standard method for purchasing any number of services and for paying the invoices associated with these purchases. As a stakeholder, it is my responsibility to assist with the development of the product and its marketing (internal to the various Enron Legal Departments).  In order to ensure that the development and implementation run as planned, the program calls for the appointment of ""Change Agents,"" - defined as: 
You have been selected to attend a Stakeholders Kickoff Luncheon on March 20th from 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM at the Double Tree Hotel in the Travis Room, to learn more about the new iBuyit Payables Workflow tool.  The iBuyit Payables Workflow tool is fully automated and will allow for greater ease and accuracy when coding and approving invoices. At the luncheon: ?	You will be the first to see the iBuyit Payables Workflow tool ?	We will be asking you for input on the tool ?	We will reveal more about your role in the success of the iBuyit Payables Workflow tool Please review the attached Stakeholder Roles and Responsibilities and the slides of the iBuyit Payables Workflow tool.  We will have additional copies for you at the luncheon. Also, please bring your list of identified Change Agents with you. (Change Agent is defined in the Stakeholder Roles and Responsibilities attachment) If you cannot personally attend, be certain to send an alternate.  Direct any questions about the event or any special dietary requests to Judy Knepshield at X-35788. 
Wow--softball questions.  Two thoughts:  1, should we be gentler on the ""lack of takeaway capacity"" issue?  Steve would know how to play this given Socal's position.  2,  Did McKinsey check with Enron before taking this assignment from Cal?  The lack of conflict of interest rules in the consultant world never ceases to amaze me.  That being said, McKinsey is probably the best outfit we could hope for to take this investigation over for Cal.  I'd like to be on the call to be sure our script for FERC on the neg. rate deals dovetails with what we tell these guys.  Let me know when the call will be.  We may know what the TW FERC order says before this conversation with McKinsey happens so lets talk again before the call.  Thanks.  df 
Good--the ""to the extent that"" phrase is appropriately ambiguous on what actually happened--should make Harris happy.  DF 
Good idea--its good to get Martha out of town now and then so the rest of us can get some rest!  DF Rick Dietz 09/28/2000 01:17 PM 
My Contract Administration staff is having a meeting on October 6th to discuss our document control process and have requested that Martha Benner attend this meeting.   Since it would be more effective if she were in Houston for this meeting (rather than on the telephone), would you approve for her to travel?  I'm sure that she could arrange to spend some of her time with the Houston law department as well. Rick 
Thanks--I'll pass that info on to the employment guys.  df 
That is unclear at this time--I'll consider this and as I'm not moving for awhile, this may be the easy fix.  Thanks. df 
I need an extension--I'll give you any comments I have tomorrow by email.  = If I have any feel free to blame me for slowing down the process!=20 
Thanks Bill--see my other email.  We'll let them suggest a name.  df 
Thanks Ann--I won't move until Summer, but am aware of this issue (Mike Moran reminded me that an Omaha replacement needs to be found).  I've asked our paralegal Bill Brown to help find likely suspects but if you have an idea let me know what we need to do.  Thanks.  df 
The author was obviously not aware that the Enron pipelines pride themselves in having standardized our ""operational nuisances"" !!  df 
I'm good with it, but have one question.  In par. 2, does the reference to Sec. 13 of the tariff incorporate the lottery method?  I think that's what we are getting at with that reference and I'm ok with it, but I just wanted to confirm that's what we meant.  Thanks. df 
I'm going down Sunday night--which flight are you on?  df 
Yes--that would be great.  Please remind me what changes need to be made--removing mike from the operating company officer slates, etc.  I guess.  df 
Congrats big guy!  I look forward to showing you the sights in the Big O. Since that will only take about 10 minutes, we'll have plenty time to go out for a beer afterwords!  DF 
Maria, I won't have a chance to look at this until Friday--pls take a look and get back to Bill.  Grab me if you hav3e any questions.  df 
Please draft up some language that can be added to this policy to satisfy Mike's concern.  Run it by me and we'll send it to Rod.  Thanks df 
Great--Martha, pls get me in here for next wk.  I'll be down in Hou all wk I think.  I would like to see what else is available, so why don't you give me a call on Monday afternoon in Houston and we'll figure out when would work to take a look.  Thanks.  DF  (Martha--ignore my earlier email on this subject) Laura Kinningham 03/20/2001 05:52 PM 
Hello Drew, I wanted to touch base with you regarding your temporary housing situation.  Deb Cappiello called me this morning and informed me that the Marketing apartment is fully available to you starting on Monday, March 26.  Deb mentioned that they would still receive the invoices in Omaha, but could code the invoice to a Legal cost center if you decided to go with this apartment. Debra Kallus in the relocation department is available any time to discuss alternative temporary housing with you as well.  She has offered to have a representative personally show you corporate housing close to downtown if you are interested.  Let me know if we need to proceed with Debra further or go with the Marketing apartment.  My extension is 3-6609 and cell number 713-410-3058 if you would like to discuss.  Thanks. 
Lets talk tomorrow about the whole basket of TW issues, including this one.  thanks. df 
thanks df 
pls print this email also.  thanks df 
pls print with emails.  thanks df 
Would it make sense to have Lee and Bill follow up on this?  I don't know what's involved but hopefully not much.  Lee and Bill, absent contrary guidance from Lou, please handle this.  Thanks. df 
Attached are the ETS litigation, environmental, and regulatory issues per our records documented in accordance with the meeting held last fall.  We are currently updating these records for our 2000 year-end audits.  Please provide us with any necessary changes to the issue documentation already recorded as well as any new information that may not be included. (See attached file: Regulatory followup e-mail.doc) Please give me a call at 713-646-6530 if you have any questions.  Thanks for your time. *******************Internet Email Confidentiality Footer******************* Privileged/Confidential Information may be contained in this message.  If you are not the addressee indicated in this message (or responsible for delivery of the message to such person), you may not copy or deliver this message to anyone. In such case, you should destroy this message and kindly notify the sender by reply email. Please advise immediately if you or your employer do not consent to Internet email for messages of this kind.  Opinions, conclusions and other information in this message that do not relate to the official business of my firm shall be understood as neither given nor endorsed by it. - Regulatory followup e-mail.doc 
Congratulations on your new responsibilities.  I look forward to working with you on the Litigation Unit stuff (as Eric will advise you, a very pleasant task!).  DF 
Please see attached memo. 
pls print this for me with the cover memo.  thanks. df 
Please let him know I'll try to call her on Thur. PM.  thanks.  df 
Thanks Ranelle!  As for the marketing folks, one benefit is I'll be down there riding shotgun on those TW guys!  df 
Yes he did, and i'm good with you starting full time down there next wk.  Maria and I have talked about it also.  df 
Pls print for me--Mike, thanks for offering me a copy but I had it on the computer after all.  Thanks.  df 
I apologize in advance for the short notice, but Stan has indicated that you are certainly welcome to start attending all of his 2001 calendar year half day staff meetings and that your attendance would be appreciated but is NOT mandatory.    Please see the below attached agenda for the details regarding tomorrow's meeting. Please note on your respective calendars the remaining scheduled half day staff meetings (which all take place via video conference) as follows: May 16		8:30AM-1:00PM (Summer Break) August 15	8:30AM-1:00PM October 24	1:00PM-5:00PM December 12	8:30AM-1:00PM Don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions or concerns. Thanks, Cindy Stanley Horton 03/13/2001 01:25 PM Sent by:	Cindy Stark 
Please reference the attached agenda.  If you have any questions or concerns, do not hesitate to call me. Please be sure to advise me if you are UNABLE to attend! Thanks, Cindy X36197 
COOL!  I didn't know you guys were that far down the road on this project.  Congratulations and best wishes for further success!  DF ""Tony Clark"" <ajc@infohwy.com> on 03/20/2001 09:25:35 AM 
Regards, Tony Clark - prs rls 3-12-01.doc 
Could one of you guys get me rsvp'd for this please?  I don't need any CLE = credit.  Thanks df 
Count me in!  df 
pls print.  t hanks df 
Please reference the attached agenda.  If you have any questions or concerns, do not hesitate to call me. Please be sure to advise me if you are UNABLE to attend! Thanks, Cindy X36197 
Some of you may have seen the article in the WSJ already, but for those of us in Omaha (who don't typically get the Texas Edition) it was news to us.  Not only is the article relevant because it apparently caused the stock to dip by $10, but the article elaborates on concerns that apply to a form of accounting that some of our commercial people would like to have apply to our business.  I'm not sure the accounting rules would permit mark to market treatment for transport or storage contracts, but it may be appropriate for financial or commodity deals.  DF 
Hell yes we're coming out!!  Especially now that I know the job market is so good!  I'll give you a call to confirm details (I don't think I've actually talked to you in a couple of years!)  By the way, we're moving to Houston--my boss up and quit and since no one else wanted his job they gave it to me.  Cool.  df Egert_Steve@emc.com on 03/13/2001 10:40:13 AM 
I would have jumped yesterday but couldn't figure out how to get my window open.  Since I'm on the 7th floor and the snowdrift goes up to the 4th, it wouldn't have done much good anyway.  Know of any good part time jobs--I need to supplement the ole' retirement plan!  df 
Hey, great talking to you.  I appreciate your willingness to talk to David = about the DOE situation.  He's a great guy and one of the best substantive = lawyers I've met.  Short bio--U. of Missouri undergrad, Northwestern law sc= hool.  He was a staffer after law school on the House or Senate Ag committe= e--I can't remember which.  Big time federalist society member and knows al= l those ultra-right winger types.  He was my partner at Wiley Rein and Fiel= ding and was the right hand man of Dick Wiley and Fred Fielding among the y= ounger partners--kind of an enforcer, future executive committee type (he k= ept me from getting fired a couple of times--I'm sure he regrets that now).= Dave wasn't an energy lawyer originally, but did a lot of work on my clie= nt stuff and took over my natural gas clients after I left Wiley.  He also = did a lot of electric restructuring stuff (he was one of the lead lawyers f= or Penn. Power and Light and United Illuminating on the Order 888 complianc= e filings and Nepool and PJM Power Pool open access restructurings).   He's= a Missouri native and got tired of the DC law firm rat race and moved to K= C.  Currently a partner at Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin--does a lot of Ut= ilicorp/Aquila stuff as you'd expect.  Dave's direct dial at work is 816-98= 3-8385 and his home number is 816-407-9026. =20 Mark--anything you can do to give this guy a sense of what life is like at = DOE would be great.  I'm not sure how seriously Dave is being considered fo= r the DOE Dep. GC spot, but I know that Fred Fielding and Dick Wiley have d= one some pushing on his behalf.  It may be that a call from you to someone = out there might put him over the hump.  I'll leave that for you and he to d= 
pls print  thanks df 
Barbara:  in case my voice mails didn't make sense, see the final section of Shelley's paper on valuation.  ETS is working through INGAA to push in a direction that is inconsistent with where Paul and Mark were hoping BLM will go.  DF 
Pheasantsrus???  What a great email address!  I'll hang on to us in case ole' Jim sells us down the river for next year!  Talk to you.  df ""Loon, Douglas"" <DLoon@USChamber.com> on 03/12/2001 10:57:57 AM 
This weekend on Tony Dean's Outdoors (the guy from Pierre) they featured a farm near Kennebec.  It is just South of where we were last year.  They appear a bit more organized with dogs and real guides.  I thought you might like their site.  I would guess that they are way more expensive than our guy, reinforcing our sense that we got a good deal. http://www.pheasantsrus.com/ Douglas B. Loon Midwest Regional Office U.S. Chamber of Commerce 5300 Hyland Greens Drive Suite 220 Minneapolis, MN  55437-3933 (952) 832-9151 fax: (952) 832-9454 
Thanks Lynn!  I'm sure we'll see a lot more of each other!  df Lynn Blair 03/09/2001 07:32 PM 
Drew, congratulations.  We are really excited to have you in Houston. Hope I still have an opportunity to work with you off and on.  I have learned a lot working with you on NNG and TW.  Take care and good luck in your new job.  Lynn 
Are we all on the same page that this is OK?  Is MKM's group good on it?  (I didn't see anyone from her group listed on the distribution). DF Tony Pryor 03/09/2001 04:43 PM 
Attached is the revised webtext for the day to day versions of the R+C, RMn and RMx sustainable products, reflecting comments received this week. The format has been changed to be consistent with the revised format of the sustainable products. I would appreciate receiving your comments by noon, Wednesday, March 14. 
pls print.  thanks df 
Sounds tempting, but I'm otherwise committed.  DF Paul Gertsen <paulg@stpaul.lib.mn.us> on 09/22/2000 11:59:48 AM 
Hey - I just found out there's a live web cam right down the block from the library, focused on a Snoopy statue. If I go stand there at 1:30 central will you  take a look? I'll send the address - I checked it out. It works. Should we try it? pkg 
I think it looks good.  df 
could you please fill out all my junk on htis.  thankss df 
THANKS!  I'VE BEEN WAITING FOR SOMEONE TO JUMP ME ON THE APRIL 1 DEAL BUT YOU ARE THE ONLY ONE SO FAR!!!!!  ITS NOT LIKE PEOPLE TO PASS UP A FREE SHOT AT A LAWYER!  DF 
Thanks Craig!  I'll look forward to seeing your smilin' face more frequently!  [Actually that will be tough since I currently see it at least twice a day on a life size billboard in the Omaha office lobby!!]  df 
remind me to call Mike and see if I need to be at thsi.  I don't think so but I'll let him make the call.  df 
A couple of additional thoughts on this morning's conversation:=20 =20 1.  if we really think the next 6 or 8 months will sort out the takeaway an= d receipt point capacity issues, why not bet the whole farm and try to hold= onto the whole 150 mm/d until next winter or fall and see if the perceived= value goes up?  We could tell Calpine ""no"" on their bid and hold them off = for several months ""negotiating"" if that's what we thought would lead to th= e best value.  I don't personally think this would be a prudent approach, b= ut its where our logic leads in the extreme, so we'd better be prepared to = explain why getting the bird in the hand from Calpine is smart. =20 2.  We'll research the question of whether we can reject any recourse bids = that come in over the next 6-8 months if we decide to hold onto the 60 mm/d= for awhile.  I've thought about it a bit more and I'm pretty sure you're n= ot going to like the answer.  First, FERC says we've got to have a recourse= rate in place for all capacity, new or old.  One reason is that there need= s to be a max rate that applies to long term capacity releases.  We have th= e option on new projects to go with the existing max tariff rate or a new i= ncrementally designed rate.  We are going with the existing tariff rate on = RedRock.  Fine, but that makes the existing rate the recourse rate for all = purposes.  FERC's logic will be that TW could sell all of the RedRock capac= ity at recourse rates (currently $.38) and never suffer a revenue shortfall= even if future rate cases reduce TW's overall rates, because the costs of = all TW's facilities--including the new project--will be considered in the n= ext rate case.  Think about it--our rates will only go down in the future i= f the ENTIRE cost of service goes down.  We'd never ""lose money"" on RedRock= , but we might not make as much as we could have made with an 15 year fixed= $.38 negotiated rate. There is another  approach.  We could have Mavrix submit a binding bid righ= t now for the 60 mm/d and just flat out sell it to them.  That would send a= pretty strong signal to the market that we are serious about deadlines.  T= he downside of that aggressive approach is that it would get us into the sa= me mess that El Paso finally got themselves out of, with Amoco, Dynegy and = the whole gang beating the crap out of us.  I'm not to fired up about this = approach for that reason.  I'll give you a call Monday after I've picked ou= 
Here it is.  The format's a little screwed up, but what do you expect from me? 
The last couple of meetings with Elaine have been full of surprises for all of us!  DF Steven Harris 09/21/2000 10:44 AM 
I am a little confused myself, especially since I was not in the meeting and have come to find out that even with all the max rate deals we have done and the fuel hedges TW is still $15 million short!!!!! 
Am I the only one who doesn't understand this answer?  DF 
FYI -  regarding your question this afternoon. Everyone be sure to dream up some creative ways to improve earnings . . .  We need revisions by Friday morning. Thanks!  Elaine 
$2.5MM SAP accrual which I will use to offset the increase in the Corp charges for this year instead of charging to the pipelines. $5.0 -$6.0MM I hope to be able to carry over to next year.  It depends on the $ some costs really come in at.  We did some things in the second quarter to hold income back.  I can't  really reverse this year.  If our GPG target does go up to $401MM, I will have a $35 MM hole at my level. I wrote off business development projects and some other things. The inventory deal is still up in the air.  Rod will know more tomorrow. At this point in time, even if it happens higher, we will still have a hole. Maybe they can try the structured products??? Tracy Elaine Concklin 09/20/2000 04:10 PM 
Tracy, Can you tell me what the ($10.2) for Enron Pipeline Company is in the 3CE (primarily in Q1 & Q2)?  That seems to be creating the remaining GPG hole for the year. Our officers had been counting on having more reserves to carry into 2001 to help fill the NNG and TW gaps.  I also heard from Bob that the inventory deal may still be viable at a higher amount - more like $20MM.  Do you have any updates on that? Thanks,  Elaine 
Thanks Jeff!  One big benefit is that I'll be down here so I can keep a closer eye on you guys!  df 
pls print.  thanks. 
pls print.  df 
pls print.  thanks df 
Electric 	Restructuring 
no--I dont' get these so thanks for inviting me!  this one does sound good but unfortunately I'll be on my way to DC for the sla mtg.  thanks df 
Thanks Bob--and you're right about winter!  df 
Portland General Appears Uncertain 
pls print for me.  thanks  df =20 
land General Appears Uncertain Today's IssueAlert Sponsors:   [IMAGE]   The CIS Conference provides utility management personnel unequaled insight and current inform= ation on Customer Relationship Management (CRM), E-Commerce, Technologies a= nd Marketing. Fifty-four sessions conducted by utility industry representat= ives will focus on issues facing the industry. Over 100 companies will exhi= bit the latest technologies and services.   Former President George Bush is= our Honored Keynote Speaker   www.cisconference.org   Identify and discuss current issues confronting the energy and telecommuni= cations industries at the Center for Public Utilities' annual spring confer= ence. How should these problems be resolved? What tradeoffs are made with e= ach solution? Join panel discussions led by utility executives and PUC comm= issioners in Santa Fe, NM, March 25-28th, at ""Current Issues Challenging th= e Utility Industry."" To register, or for more information, contact Jeanette= Walter , Associate Director, at 505-646-3242 or 505-646-4876.  The Center = for Public Utilities is part of New Mexico State University, presenting pro= grams sanctioned by the National Association of Regulatory Commissioners (N= ARUC).  For advertising information, email Nancy Spring , or call (505)244-7613.   =   [IMAGE] IssueAlert for  March 8, 2001=20 Problems Mount for Sierra Pacific Resources, Acquisition of Portland General Appears Uncertain by Will McNamara=20 Director, Electric Industry Analysis The probability appears to be getting smaller that Sierra Pacific Resources= (NYSE: SRP) will complete its $3.1 billion acquisition of Portland General= Electric (NYSE: PGB) from Enron (NYSE: ENE). Enron disclosed in an 8K fili= ng with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Feb. 27 that the sa= le of Portland General had been delayed because of ""recent events"" in Calif= ornia and Nevada that affected Sierra Pacific. Walt Higgins, chair and CEO = of Sierra Pacific Resources, told Wall Street analysts that the acquisition= agreement will terminate if it has not closed by May 1.=20 Analysis: Yesterday I wrote about the apparent collapse of the merger betwe= en Consolidated Edison and Northeast Utilities (NU). Now, another high-prof= ile merger appears to be unraveling. As with the Con Edison / NU deal, the = problem facing Sierra Pacific Resources' pending purchase of Portland Gener= al from Enron is based in economics. Namely, it appears that Sierra Pacific= Resources' recent financial problems have cast doubt on the company's abil= ity to complete its purchase of Portland General. This is not a good develo= pment for Sierra Pacific Resources, as the financial and legal implications= of this potentially dead acquisition could exacerbate the company's curren= t financial problems. =20 First, let me provide some background on this deal. The origin of Sierra Pa= cific Resources' attempt to acquire Portland General date back to November = 1999. Enron had purchased the company in 1997 as a strategic move to facili= tate its intent to play a major role in the retail markets of California an= d the Pacific Northwest. At the time, Enron saw itself as a prototype for t= he future of the energy industry, adding transmission and distribution capa= bilities as well as more diversified fuel resources to its already successf= ul wholesale marketing core. Stymied by the slow start of competition in Ca= lifornia and Oregon, Enron underwent a transformation in its corporate phil= osophy. Under the growing direction of Jeffrey Skilling, Enron no longer be= lieved that it needed to own hard assets to retain its place in the top tie= r of energy companies. That philosophy has served Enron well, as its succes= s in nearly all of its business sectors has been well documented.=20 Yet, Enron's transformation opened the door for Sierra Pacific Resources, a= relatively small and regionally based holding company, to move in for a pu= rchase of Portland General. Owning Portland General made more sense for Sie= rra Pacific Resources than it did for Enron. Portland General, which provid= es electric service to over 700,000 customers in the Portland-Salem area, w= as viewed as a good acquisition target as it would help Sierra Pacific Reso= urces to gain scale and a foothold in two fast-growing states (Nevada and O= regon). Sierra Pacific Resources agreed to pay Enron $2.1 billion for Portl= and General, which included $2.02 billion in cash and assumption of Enron's= $80 million merger payment obligation. In addition, Sierra Pacific Resourc= es agreed to assume $1 billion in Portland General debt and preferred stock= , taking the total value of the purchase to $3.1 billion. Portland General = appeared happy with the scheduled sale from Enron, acknowledging that its o= wn core business ""delivering safe and reliable power with a customer servic= e focus"" was more in line with Sierra Pacific Resources. =20 However, a number of economic factors on Sierra Pacific Resources' side of = the table seem to be thwarting this acquisition. As I discussed in the Feb.= 22 IssueAlert (available at www.consultrci.com), Sierra Pacific Resources = reported a significant fourth-quarter loss ($18.2 million) as a result of s= oaring costs of power in the western United States. The company incurred lo= sses as a direct result of ""the growing and unrecovered cost of purchased p= ower in the volatile wholesale market."" As a result, Sierra Pacific Resourc= es filed with state regulators for an emergency rate increase. ""Without som= e rate relief, the cost of fuel and power is close to crippling our ability= to serve the needs of our customers,"" said Mark Ruelle, the company's chie= f financial officer. The company attributed the latest quarter's loss to ne= arly $258 million of unanticipated fuel and purchased power costs.=20 Specifically, Sierra Pacific Resources reported a 4Q 2000 loss of $18.2 mil= lion, or 23 cents a share. This compared with a profit of $26.8 million, or= 39 cents a share, excluding a $56 million deferred energy write-off a year= ago. Including the write-off, the company reported a loss of $29.2 million= , or 42 cents a share, in 4Q 1999. For year-end 2000, the company reported = a net loss of $39.8 million or 51 cents per share, a 177-percent drop from = 1999.=20 In addition, the company's stock has fallen steadily over the last few week= s (at one point, dropping 11.8 percent to $10.80 on the New York Stock Exch= ange Feb. 7). At the close of trading on March 7, shares of Sierra Pacific = Resources were priced at $13.80, which is still down from its 52-week high = of $19.43 and book value of $17.82. The drop in stock price could make it d= ifficult for Sierra Pacific Resources to secure the financing necessary to = complete the purchase of Portland General.=20 Meanwhile, Sierra Pacific Resources' available cash flow could be impacted = by possible restrictions placed on the sale of its power plants. The Public= Utility Commission of Nevada (PUCN) mandated divestiture as a condition of= the 1999 merger between Nevada Power Co. and Sierra Pacific Power Co, whic= h created the holding company Sierra Pacific Resources. Toward that end, th= e holding company and its wholly owned utility subsidiaries commenced a pub= lic auction of approximately 2,900 MW of power generation facilities. Of Si= erra Pacific Resources' nine power plants, which are mostly fired by natura= l gas and coal, seven have been entered into sales agreements to companies = such as Dynegy and NRG and will be sold upon final regulatory approval.  = =20 However, over the last few weeks, there has been growing concern that Nevad= a regulators would not approve pending sales or authorize the sale of addit= ional power plants by Sierra Pacific Resources, thus preventing the company= from using the proceeds to pay for the acquisition of Portland General. Pe= rhaps out of fears about depleting the Nevada's power supply, the Attorney = General's Bureau of Consumer Protection, the Southern Nevada Water Authorit= y and the AFL-CIO have urged that the sale of the plants be delayed or canc= eled. Further, Nevada Governor Kenny Guinn has called on the PUCN to recons= ider the 1999 order that required Sierra Pacific Resources to sell the plan= ts owned by its two utilities, Nevada Power and Sierra Pacific Power. Any a= vailable cash that Sierra Pacific Resources was planning to use from the po= wer plant sales to support its acquisition of Portland General may not mate= rialize if the sales agreements are delayed or terminated.=20 Ironically, Nevada Power and Sierra Pacific Power Co. just received approva= l from the PUCN to secure $1.4 billion in bank loans, bond financing and pr= eferred securities. However, due to agreements that the utilities previousl= y made, none of the borrowed money may be used, directly or indirectly, to = financially support its parent's acquisition of Portland General. =20 Thus, Sierra Pacific Resources seems to be between a rock and a hard place = regarding this purchase, which it apparently still wants to complete. It wo= uld appear that Sierra Pacific Resources will have difficulty financing the= purchase of Portland General due to the combination of its significant fin= ancial losses, plunging stock prices and possible restrictions against the = sale of its power plants. Presumably, these are the ""recent events"" to whic= h Enron referred in its SEC filing. =20 It is fairly clear that Enron no longer wishes to own Portland General and = believes that the company does not fit into its strategy for continuing gro= wth. What remains in question, however, is what will happen if Sierra Pacif= ic Resources' pending acquisition is not completed by the May 1 deadline, t= hus terminating the sales agreement. The problems associated with the Con E= dison / NU merger are leading to litigation. One can't help but think that = lawsuits would be inevitable in the Enron / Portland General / Sierra Pacif= ic Resources case as well, as Enron presumably would seek to be compensated= in some way for the $3.1 billion that the deal includes. =20 Further complicating matters for Sierra Pacific Resources is a growing move= ment to municipalize the electric markets in Las Vegas and Henderson, Nev. = On Jan. 11, the Southern Nevada Water Authority suggested that the agency c= ould become a public power authority. Pat Mulroy, general manager of the wa= ter authority, recommended that the agency buy power on wholesale markets a= nd possibly generate electricity from some of its own power plants to serve= cities in the area. Efforts to municipalize electric systems in the southe= rn half of the state could potentially gain momentum if Sierra Pacific Reso= urces' financial problems worsen. =20 An archive list of previous IssueAlerts is available at www.ConsultRCI.com=20 [IMAGE]  The most comprehensive, up-to-date map of the North American Power= System by RDI/FT Energy is now available from SCIENTECH.    Reach thousands of utility analysts and decision makers every day. Your com= pany can schedule a sponsorship of IssueAlert by contacting Nancy Spring   = via e-mail or calling (505)244-7613. Advertising opportunities are also ava= ilable on our website.  SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free,  daily IssueAlert. Let = us know if we can help you with  in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH i= nformation  products. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our= free,  daily IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include  their fu= ll name and email address or register directly on our site.    If you no lo= nger wish to receive this daily email, send a message to IssueAlert , and i= nclude the word ""delete"" in the subject line.  SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts(SM) are compiled based on the  independent analysis= of SCIENTECH consultants. The opinions expressed in  SCIENTECH's IssueAler= ts are not intended to predict financial performance  of companies discusse= d, or to be the basis for investment decisions of any  kind. SCIENTECH's so= le purpose in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer  an independent perspe= ctive regarding the key events occurring in the  energy industry, based on = its long-standing reputation as an expert on  energy issues.     Copyright = 2001. SCIENTECH, Inc. All rights  reserved. 
Thanks man!  Just for old time's sake, I'll drop by Pacific Springs and bounce a few off the ole' shack this summer! 
Thanks!  DF 
Thanks!  I'll keep the Nebraska plates for about a year just like you kept your Texas plates after you moved up north! 
Per my voice mail yesterday--I'm getting more curious about what's going on with every garbled answer I get.  DF 
Am I the only one who doesn't understand this answer?  DF 
FYI -  regarding your question this afternoon. Everyone be sure to dream up some creative ways to improve earnings . . .  We need revisions by Friday morning. Thanks!  Elaine 
$2.5MM SAP accrual which I will use to offset the increase in the Corp charges for this year instead of charging to the pipelines. $5.0 -$6.0MM I hope to be able to carry over to next year.  It depends on the $ some costs really come in at.  We did some things in the second quarter to hold income back.  I can't  really reverse this year.  If our GPG target does go up to $401MM, I will have a $35 MM hole at my level. I wrote off business development projects and some other things. The inventory deal is still up in the air.  Rod will know more tomorrow. At this point in time, even if it happens higher, we will still have a hole. Maybe they can try the structured products??? Tracy Elaine Concklin 09/20/2000 04:10 PM 
Tracy, Can you tell me what the ($10.2) for Enron Pipeline Company is in the 3CE (primarily in Q1 & Q2)?  That seems to be creating the remaining GPG hole for the year. Our officers had been counting on having more reserves to carry into 2001 to help fill the NNG and TW gaps.  I also heard from Bob that the inventory deal may still be viable at a higher amount - more like $20MM.  Do you have any updates on that? Thanks,  Elaine 
Thanks LD!  I'm sure I'll be spending a bunch of time in both places!  DF 
Thanks!  We are looking forward to it in a big way--mostly because its still winter up in the big O!  df 
Sandra--nice of them!   df 
Thanks Dana!  Maybe we'll be neighbors! df 
Thanks Jim!  I'm looking forward to the challenge!  df 
Thanks Mike!  I'll miss it but I suspect I'll get back a lot to bother you guys!  df 
Thanks Sharon!  df 
Thanks Steve!  df 
Thanks Dan!  df Dan Pribble 03/08/2001 06:24 AM 
Drew Congratulations, look forward to seeing you in Houston. If I can help in your transition, please call. Dan 
Thanks!  I wouldn't miss it, even if I have to make it out of Texas armadillo!  df 
Am I the only one who doesn't understand this answer?  DF 
FYI -  regarding your question this afternoon. Everyone be sure to dream up some creative ways to improve earnings . . .  We need revisions by Friday morning. Thanks!  Elaine 
$2.5MM SAP accrual which I will use to offset the increase in the Corp charges for this year instead of charging to the pipelines. $5.0 -$6.0MM I hope to be able to carry over to next year.  It depends on the $ some costs really come in at.  We did some things in the second quarter to hold income back.  I can't  really reverse this year.  If our GPG target does go up to $401MM, I will have a $35 MM hole at my level. I wrote off business development projects and some other things. The inventory deal is still up in the air.  Rod will know more tomorrow. At this point in time, even if it happens higher, we will still have a hole. Maybe they can try the structured products??? Tracy Elaine Concklin 09/20/2000 04:10 PM 
Tracy, Can you tell me what the ($10.2) for Enron Pipeline Company is in the 3CE (primarily in Q1 & Q2)?  That seems to be creating the remaining GPG hole for the year. Our officers had been counting on having more reserves to carry into 2001 to help fill the NNG and TW gaps.  I also heard from Bob that the inventory deal may still be viable at a higher amount - more like $20MM.  Do you have any updates on that? Thanks,  Elaine 
Thanks Bill!  As to replacing myself, this is a great opportunity to get someone in that spot that actually knows something!  If you have any ideas on people I should talk to please give me a call.  DF 
Shit--I knew I forgot something!  My boss leaves for good on April one, so I'll be spending 3 or so days a wk in Hou starting now.  I'll be the VP and General Counsel of Enron Transportation Services, which is the division that runs all the pipelines.  Yeeha.  I agree about getting together--when you coming down to visit the sister in law?  Maybe we can run up to MPLS for a boondoggle.  Also, I'll be in DC the 22d and 23d of March--where are you?  DF ""Loon, Douglas"" <DLoon@USChamber.com> on 03/07/2001 04:15:22 PM 
I got the call today.  Got the job.  I feel like the dog that caught the car--enjoyed the chase but don't know quite what to do with the car.  DF 
Thanks!  I agree-lets stay offline on possible deals.  DF Lee Huber 03/07/2001 10:48 AM 
Congrats!! Also  I don't think it wise to put due diligence activities on Legals weekly bullets but I will put them on my weekly report to you.  Those reports get too wide a distribution.  OK?? 
Users, Denise LaGesse 
Approved.  DF Magdelena Cruz@ECT 03/07/2001 09:32 AM 
Your approval is required for Denise LaGesse to attend the following class. To grant approval, send a reply to ""magdelena.cruz@enron.com"" (NotesMail: Magdelena Cruz/HOU/ECT). Be sure to include employee's name and class number in reply. XMS (Expense Management System)  For New Users Session Dates & Times: 03/28/2001  8:30:00 AM-11:30:00 AM Location: EB564 No Show/Participant Fee: $ 135.00 If you have any questions, please call the Technology Training Coordinator at 713-853-1816. 
Man, I did sound a little testy--due to my own inability to remember which one of those stupid FERC acronyms is which.  df 
Update on ski conditions on the western front--doesn't sound bad at all!  Glad you're coming up man!  DF 
Drew, Not sure about gear sites for kid crash hats.   Could try www.rei.com .  You could just get  them hockey goaly helmets for multi-use and just hanging around the house  wailing on each other.  Haven't been to Terry downhill skiing in a while  but went x-country last weekend with the doggies and there's a LOT of  snow.  Brad and Jen are coming this weekend so we plan to check Terry  out.  Should still be decent in a couple weeks.  We'll let you  know.  Made it up to Hanna creek today fly fishing and cought a couple  wopping 4 inchers.  Wound up augered into snow up to my waist.  Bring  your fishing gear in case the skiing sucks.  Definately bring your  x-country gear.  Maybe we could get out for a quick morning at Eagle Cliff  and still make it to Terry to meet up with everyone else by noon. See you later, got to go walk  hounds 
Lee Huber 03/06/2001 03:34 PM 
SO SORRY!!  Kim Wilkie and I  are trying to figure out this MOPS mess before she leaves for the birth which is soon!!  We were able to get ahold of Mike Moran and he was able to give us invaluable assistance and the time just got away.  Tony and I will get with Susan for a summary. If we do that, does it still go on our ""permanent record""? 
pls put on my calendar.  df 
Steve Stojic called to let me know that the technical conference in RP01-56 will be held on Jan. 9 at 10:00.  A notice will be issued shortly. 
Thanks.  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
I'll be unavailable--sorry.  DF 
Approved.  DF Magdelena Cruz@ECT 03/06/2001 09:49 AM 
Your approval is required for Denise LaGesse to attend the following class. To grant approval, send a reply to ""magdelena.cruz@enron.com"" (NotesMail: Magdelena Cruz/HOU/ECT). Be sure to include employee's name and class number in reply. XMS (Expense Management System)  For New Users Session Dates & Times: 03/14/2001  8:30:00 AM-11:30:00 AM Location: EB568 No Show/Participant Fee: $ 135.00 If you have any questions, please call the Technology Training Coordinator at 713-853-1816. 
Julia and Steve--here are some questions I've sent to Darrell on the TW Cal. border line pack sales.  I'd like him to pull in the right people to get me the answers so we will be prepared if we need to explain these events.  Darrell--I thought I'd better let your bosses know that I've been putting more stuff on your already full plate.  Thanks all.  DF 
In anticipation of potential litigation involving TW's operational activities, please prepare an analysis for me of the reasons for TW's sale of excess natural gas at the California border.  I am aware of several of these sales and have been  informed that excess pressure at the border is the basic reason for them.  I'd like a more specific explanation that includes the following information: 1.  What are the specific pressures and volume considerations that could make it operationally necessary to sell gas at the California border? 2.  What is the process that is followed to make such a determination? 3.  Which individuals or groups are involved in determining whether an operational sale is necessary? 4.  In what way have system operations changed since last year and how do those changes contribute to the increased frequency of such sales compared to previous years? 5. What alternatives to operational sales are considered before the decision to make a sale is reached? 
I haven't seen a contract yet on the original 33,000 on TW but Susan thought the deal was going to be done--she's checking to see where the holdup is.  On the El Paso capacity, Mavrix never submitted a bid.  I think the deadline got past us before we were ready.  df 
In anticipation of potential litigation involving TW's operational activities, please prepare an analysis for me of the reasons for TW's sale of excess natural gas at the California border.  I am aware of several of these sales and have been  informed that excess pressure at the border is the basic reason for them.  I'd like a more specific explanation that includes the following information: 1.  What are the specific pressures and volume considerations that could make it operationally necessary to sell gas at the California border? 2.  What is the process that is followed to make such a determination? 3.  Which individuals or groups are involved in determining whether an operational sale is necessary? 4.  In what way have system operations changed since last year and how do those changes contribute to the increased frequency of such sales compared to previous years? 5. What alternatives to operational sales are considered before the decision to make a sale is reached? 
Here's one for you to chew on for awhile.  As we approach the transition to a new organizational structure in ET&S, let's rethink the role and competencies of the legal department.  I'd like each of you to answer the following questions and circulate your answers to me and each other.  To avoid having anyone's answers unduly influenced by anyone else's, please send your responses at 12 noon on Thursday.  No, this isn't being graded, and doesn't affect the PRC process or any other process.  I just want to get access to as much original thinking as possible. 1.  What is the ET&S law dept. currently best at?  (give one example). 2.  What is the ET&S law dept. currently worst at?  (give one example). 3.  Without regard for any past objectives, what should our top 3 objectives be?  (make these very specific--objectives like ""We should manage legal and regulatory compliance and optimize shareholder value""  don't cut it). Thanks for your responses.  DF 
I heard there was an article in the WSJ a few days ago on Blockbuster and 
Dave, I've had a technical conference come up at FERC on the 20th in a matt= er=20 that I'm responsible for.  Bill strongly suggested that I go to DC.  Now, I= =20 may not be a rocket scientist, but I see pretty clearly the wisdom of=20 following Bill's advice.  I've let Mike Moran know and at Bill's suggestion= ,=20 asked him if he'd like a substitute to stand in for me (maybe Lou Soldano?)= . =20 Judging from the list of participants in this PRC, I assume I was partly an= =20 ET&S representative and partly a GPG law representative.   I note that ET&S= =20 is already pretty well represented with Neubauer,  Julia and Mike Nelson. = =20 Without me, there is noone from law, but our people have already been PRC'd= =20 anyway.  I'll leave it to you and Mike to decide if my spot needs to be=20 filled with someone from GPG law.  Sorry about this--just one more bit of= =20 evidence that I ""have issues.""  DF =20   
Ladies and Gentlemen: As you know, GPG=01,s Manager Performance Review Committee (PRC), of which = you=20 are members, is scheduled to meet Thursday afternoon, July 20, in EB49C2 fr= om=20 1:30 to approximately 5:30 PM. You=01,ll note that our membership has expan= ded=20 to include Jim Prentice and Steve Hotte, who will represent managers in Enr= on=20 Clean Fuels and IT, respectively. By July 20, each manager should have a pre-rating in the Performance=20 Evaluation Program (PEP) system.  Our task as a committee will be to=20 determine a final mid-year rating for each manager and achieve appropriate= =20 distribution of performance levels across GPG.  The PRC=01,s results will b= e=20 reviewed at the GPG Management Committee=01,s PRC the following day. The attachment below lists the employees we are reviewing and identifies=20 which of them you are expected to represent.  Please be prepared to discuss= =20 their performance, including both their strengths and areas that need=20 improvement.=20 You=01,ll note that not all of you have specific managers assigned.  That= =01,s okay=20 your insights regarding the performance of managers with whom you have=20 interacted during the year will be valuable to the process.  Furthermore, P= RC=20 members who have a large group of mangers for whom you are responsible shou= ld=20 feel free to ask another committee member with fewer or no managers for hel= p=20 in gathering the necessary performance feedback. Finally, for your information Mary Ellen Coombe of EOTT Energy will be=20 joining us on the 20th as an observer.  EOTT expects to implement its own= =20 version of the PRC process shortly. Please let me know if you need additional information. 
Jean, I'm on the road in Houston and can't get into PEP.  It doesn't show up as an icon on the laptop when I get online throught the dial up program. Please let me know how to get into it as I've got about a hundred reviews to 
I believe Allday is being deposed in Austin, which is still the capital of Texas, not the United States (although I understand that our next president is thinking about changing that!)  DF Mike McGowan 05/26/2000 03:29 PM 
In your weekly report, I noted that Martin Allday's deposition is scheduled righ before mine on June 6-7.  I also seem to recall that due to some medical issues, Mr. Allday's deposition will be conducted in Washington DC.  If our lawers and Conoco's lawyers will be in DC, I could just as easily fly to DC vs. Houston for my deposition. Is this worth pursuing????? 
I am advised that some of you have not exhibited the requisite amount of ""pep.""  For lawyers and paralegals, you need to pick your reviewers online if you haven't already done so.  5 or 6 would be sufficient althought the computer lets you pick up to 10.  For those of you who picked more than 5 or 6 I have reduced that number, based on my thoughts about which of your chosen reviewers have had the most direct contact with you and are most likely to give a thorough review.  Let me know if you think I really blew it.  For secretaries, the online stuff is optional.  If you don't use it, I will solicit input from the people you work with like I have in the past and 
Please join me in congratulating our colleagues on their promotions.  Dari Dornan, Maria Pavlou and Jim Talcott have been promoted to Senior Counsel III, effective June 1.  Additionally, Kathy Ringblom has been promoted to Senior Legal Assistant, also effective June 1.  Congratulations, Dari, Maria, Jim and Kathy and thank you for your motivation, enthusiasm, and consistently 
Please send it to me--I'm not sure its a good fit in our dept., but I'll discuss with our group.  Thanks. DF 
Are you on of this?  DF 
I don't think I have this information.  Do you?  Lets talk.  Thanks. DF Eric Benson 02/08/2000 03:42 PM 
Per our discussion at lunch, excellent memo.  I don't know if it will make= =20 John and Rockey feel any better, but the emphasis on results is exactly the= =20 right message. =20 =20   
Earlier this week, the Office of the Chairman announced that Kent Miller ha= s=20 been elected a vice president of Enron. Kent is the first (of what I hope will be several) such promotion(s) under= =20 Enron=01,s new Performance Review Committee (PRC) process.  He and the othe= r=20 individuals selected for promotion to vice president and managing director= =20 were elected based on their track records. In Kent=01,s case, he earned his appointment by demonstrating exceptional= =20 leadership, innovation and excellent earnings performance in developing NNG= =01,s=20 storage transactions, as well as in his other marketing responsibilities. This round of promotions is noteworthy because it is the first based solely= =20 on outstanding accomplishments, rather than on the availability of open=20 hierarchical positions.  As a result, while performance expectations contin= ue=20 to increase, there will be far greater opportunity for advancement througho= ut=20 the corporation. Please join me in congratulating Kent on this achievement. 
As I mentioned in my voice mail, please check up on the signing bonus we agreed to pay Tony Pryor.  He didn't get it and we need to get that fixed asap.  I'll be at 37555 tomorrow and back in Omaha Monday.  If you learn something tomorrow and can't get ahold of me, please leave me a voice mail. 
This list looks much better than the other one.  Please make sure that we are clear with the FERC people that this is a list of AA projects related to CWIP and not a list of everything under the sun that AA does for us.  I want to avoid any appearance that we misled the FERC people.  Thanks. DF Lee Huber 09/19/2000 04:39 PM 
Here is the pared down project report from AA that we will send to FERC. 
Lets talk about this--you or I probably have the most to add in a group like this, but Lee may be the right choice because she is in Houston.  Thanks.  DF 
Drew - I talked to Mike Moran this morning and he suggested you for participation in this corporate working group (see below).  Very glad to have you.  Other group members are from  various parts of Public Affairs, both U.S. and International.  Mike also said you may want to have Maria Pavlou participate, which I leave up to you.  The perspective from the pipeline group will be a great addition to our effort. Please see the note below and respond at your earliest convenience.  Thanks very much. 
One of Steve Kean's newly formed Working Groups is for ""Rates & Tariffs"".  I have been asked to lead this group.  For those of you who don't know me, I am in Houston in the U.S./Canada Government Affairs group, in a section called ""Rates/Regulatory Services.""  Our working group will have about a dozen or so people from various parts of Public Affairs.  You have been selected/volunteered to participate in this effort by your group leaders. The Working Group members are: Ray Alvarez Sergio Assad Roy Boston Mike Grimes Kyran Hanks Rita Hartfield Nancy Hetrick Tom Hoatson Paul Kaufman Valeria Lima Bob Neustaedter Having this group will give us a great opportunity to identify needs related to rate and tariff issues across many business lines and countries, share resources, problems and solutions, and generally improve the cohesiveness of Steve's organization   One of our first tasks will be to think through and concretely specify what we expect to accomplish as a group.   We do not have a specific product mandate per se - it will be up to us to figure it out and deliver it.   Some possibilities are - identifying rates and tariffs policy positions, developing policies where none now exist, but are needed, identifying rates and tariff resources available to the group, and acquiring resources needed by the group. As a preliminary matter, could you e-mail me your group name, position, location, phone, e-mail address, and ""area of expertise"".  We will assemble this information in a roster to be distributed to the group. Early in January, we will be in touch to check availability and schedule an initial meeting.  Please be as flexible as possible.  In some cases, we are many time zones apart and it will be difficult to match everyone's desired time. As a second preliminary matter, please give some thought to and e-mail me what you think a group like this should accomplish.  Remember, the roster above has some of the world's leading authorities on rates and tariffs!   We will compile both the complete roster and your ideas on group goals and distribute them to everybody prior to our first actual meeting.   At that first meeting, we will talk through expectations of us and of each other, and the proposed goals. Please have your inputs to me by January 7.  I look forward to working with you. 
Can anyone remember if they worked on this last year?  I only remember that I didn't know what it was then and I still don't know what it is.   Thanks.  DF 
Attached hereto, please find a copy of the Compliance Report that may be used to report 1999 compliance activities. In addition, I am sending this material to each of you via lotus, and/or the Internet, if appropriate, so that yu might have the form at your disposal. Please note that thes reports are due March 31, 2000. We intend to submit the documentation to the Audit Committee of the Enron Corp. Board of Directors at the October, 2000 meeting. The 1998 Enron Corp. Compliance Report submitted by each of the operating entities will be sent to each of you under separate cover. Please call Sharon Butcher at (713) 853-7224 if you have any questions. Thank you. Ava 
Maria informed me that you left your shootin' irons in Texas when you moved up here.  What were you thinking?  I'm organizing a pheasant hunting trip in late October out in Western S. D.  Probably leave here Friday , Oct 27 and 
pls make the changes from the hardcopy I gave you and forward the completed one to Dave Neubauer and me.,  Thanks DF 
I haven't seen one in a while--please send me the current one.  We are so rarely on duty up here in Omaha that it isn't really worth doing for us!  DF Peggy Phillips   09/18/2000 12:52 PM 
Drew, Do you get an off-duty report for your folks here in Houston?  I print one out about once a month and could send you a copy if you wish.  Please let me know. Peggy 
Hey--how the hell are you?  Still having fun and living large in the big apple?  Things are great on the prarie--Huskers are No. 1 in the nation (I'm actually talking about college womens volleyball since I refuse to watch professional Husker football) and wife and small chicks are doing great.  As to SD firm, I've almost hired Lynn Jackson Schultz and LeBrun a couple of times and then ended up not needing them.  I think its the biggest firm in SD (big whoop)  and is pretty well thought of.  I went to college with a partner in their Sioux Falls office named Jon Sogn.  He's a commercial litigator and a pretty good guy.  Good luck and hope all goes well.  DF ""David N Schumeister"" <dschumeister@shearman.com> on 09/18/2000 01:28:05 PM 
Can anyone please recommend a South Dakota counsel? Thanks. ********************************NOTICE************************************* This transmittal and/or attachments may be a confidential attorney-client communication or may otherwise be privileged or confidential.  If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you have received this transmittal in error; any review, dissemination, distribution or copying of this transmittal is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this transmittal and/or attachments in error, please notify us immediately by reply or by telephone (call us collect at +1 212-848-8400) and immediately delete this message and all its attachments. Thank you. 
pls remind me of this.  thanks df 
As of September 29th if you have not converted from the ""old"" ras dial-up connection to ipass you will no longer be able to dial into Enron from your laptop. This will not effect those that dial in with their ""home"" computer. I need your laptop and the following information,,, RC#, last four numbers of your SS, and the company number. The process takes about one hour to load the software and test the dial-up connection. We need your info now so we can get the account setup, so that when you bring your laptop to me all I have to do is load the software and test. Have a great weekend......Steve Welch... 
Approved.  DF 
Approved, subject to Drew's approval. Christine Stokes 09/14/2000 09:26 AM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE COMPANY CONTRACT APPROVAL FORM Please review the attached revised non-standard discount letter to Duke Energy Trading & Marketing (DUKE) and the associated letter from Transwestern to Duke which outlines the conditions of Transwestern's Contribution in Aid of Construction (CIAC) payment to Duke for certain facility upgrades. The revised discount letter eliminates the reference to actual fuel (calculated at 1.5% for the EOT Area) which Duke shall provide to Transwestern.  All fuel which Duke shall provide Transwestern shall be at the Tariff fuel rate.  Bob Burleson has decided not to monetize the difference between actual fuel and Tariff fuel (difference being only .19%) and revise the rate given that the current economics of the deal already provide for a 24% rate of return (not including any fuel retainage ""value added"" factor). Transwestern shall pay Duke $750,000 for Duke facility upgrades in order to increase gas receipts into Transwestern from Duke's Artesia plant and Big Eddy gathering system by an incremental 20,000 Dth/d.  Duke shall subsequently subscribe to a five year transportation contract for 20,000 Dth/d of East of Thoreau  (EOT) capacity at a $.05/Dth/d one-part rate effective November 1, 2000.    Duke has been given alternate receipt and delivery rights in Transwestern's EOT Area.  Duke has also been granted the ability to flow to California on an alternate basis at a total rate of $.09/Dth/d. Please indicate approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.  Please contact me at x5702 if any questions arise. 
Here is Dave's OBA calculation exhibit.  Please call to discuss at your convenience.  DF 
Give me a call at your convenience and I'll give you a data dump.  DF 12/06/2000 07:32 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 12/06/2000 07:32 PM 12/06/2000 07:32 PM 
my no. 1 choice does not want to work for me.  i've got to stop wearing that belt of skulls around the office..... any comments on colleen????? 
Good afternoon, Mr. Soldano! I was just wondering if you've made any decisions regarding this position yet?  It's getting cold up here in Omaha! Looking forward to hearing from you. CM 
take a look and we'll send it to Greg.  DF 
I think so--Martha, please get me into this gig.  Thanks DF Tony Pryor 09/13/2000 04:56 PM 
Drew, I thought you might be interested in being a part of this. Does this meeting fit your schedule?................Tony 
pls print.  thanks df 
Attached is a draft set of slides and notes for Dave Neubauer's remarks at the Sept. 19 FERC Technical conference.  The presentation is built around 
Here is my suggested mark up (in bold) of Greg's paragraph.  I haven't sent it to him yet.  My tiering thing will follow shortly for your review.  Dari, please take a look and let me know if you have any heartburn about deleting Par. 7.   It is in the standard form OBA, but it is inconsistent with the new letter agreement.   DF 
Drew, I will send the agreement over shortly.  I wanted you to review the following.  I suggest inserting it as a new paragraph. MidAmerican and NNG understand and agree that the original November 29, 1994 Cedar Rapids and Quad Cities Operational Balancing Agreements (""the OBA's"") provide for volumetric resolution of imbalances and were not intended to be subject to the mandatory cash out provisions of NNG's Ferc Gas Tariff. MidAmerican and NNG further understand and agree that the Agreements, as clarified herein, reflect the exclusive manner in which imbalances applicable to NNG Station Nos.'s 54227 and 62858 will be incurred, valued and resolved. MidAmerican and NNG acknowledge Northern has filed previously (e.g., Docket No. RP00-404) and may file from time to time hereafter, to modify or otherwise affect the manner in which imbalances are valued and resolved on NNG's system.  Unless otherwise mutually agreed by written amendments to the Agreements, MidAmerican and NNG expressly agree that any such modifications or changes, whether approved by FERC or not, shall not modify or affect the manner in which imbalances applicable to MidAmerican's OBA's are incurred, valued or resolved.  Consistent with this agreement, MidAmerican and NNG agree that Section 7 of the OBA's is hereby deleted in its entirety. J. Gregory Porter Senior Attorney MidAmerican Energy Company 515-281-2641 (voice) 515-281-2355 (fax) 
Great--am forwarding to Dave for his thoughts.  I'll talk to you when I get back. Marhta--pls print.  DF Tony Pryor 09/12/2000 05:23 PM 
Drew, attached are my notes from our meeting today. The AA people provided a list of questions for us to review and asked us to get back with them on the questions. We agreed get back with them in two weeks. Also, Dan and Bob want to pow wow on the questions and the policy early next week. It appeared to Bob and me that to achieve AA's recommended objective of broadening and generalizing the policy along the lines of the Enron Corp policy, the best course of action would be to junk the existing one and start from scratch. I think you and I have previously agreed that the policy is too narrow. I have volunteered to create a new draft policy. I am also attaching the existing draft policy with my comments. 
Shoot, I'll be on my way to KC for KS Ad valorem.  Tony--pls cover for us. Thanks DF 
I noted in the Finance and Accounting report that you guys are setting up a meeting with AA to talk about the draft risk management document that folks had been working on a year ago.  Please include Tony and I.   We had some questions and concerns that I have long since forgotten but will renew and talk to you about before the AA meeting.  Thanks. DF 
I noted in the Finance and Accounting report that you guys are setting up a meeting with AA to talk about the draft risk management document that folks had been working on a year ago.  Please include Tony and I.   We had some questions and concerns that I have long since forgotten but will renew and 
Bummer--it would have been a hoot.  Drinking and guns go together like ham and eggs.  I'm in a meeting from 8:15 til 9 but then free for awhile--give me a buzz whenever its convenient. DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 09/11/2000 06:45:55 AM 
Here's the deal--I just talked to my guy out in Kennebec S.D. and got a glowing report on the situation.  His opening day group is down to 6 guys so he is only giving them access to half of his fields--we get first shot at the rest.  He's got so many pheasants he's worried about us limiting out to fast and getting mad.    I assured him that the way we all shoot that wouldn't be a problem. When:  Friday-Sunday, Oct. 27-29. Where:  Kenebec S.D.  (about 2 hours east of Rapid City, about 5 hours from Omaha) $$:       $75 per guy per day if we have at least 8 guys.   If we dwindle to less than 8, its $100 per guy.  (he will cut us some slack on this if some of you can only hunt 2 days.) Fish:  Walleye fish fry on Sat. PM included Lodging :  Super 8 in Chamberlain--about 30 miles away if the weather is cold, possible camping in Kennebec if people are up for it.  Super 8 is a lovely place:  motto is ""Labs sleep free.""  $100 per night, 4 guys per room+ $25/head/night. So far, I think we've got 5 or 6 guys locked in solid. Another 6 or 8 have been invited but are obtaining spousal consent.   I'd like to get 10 locked in solid by end of Sept.  More than that would make the hunting a little clumsy.  Bay, my wife says you can't come because your new kid is due around this time.  What a lame excuse!!  You were there for the first 4, right?  Doesn't a guy deserve a bye eventually?  If you guys have anyone else that's interested other than the folks that have already been invited, let me know as we may want to invite a few more just to make sure we have around 10.  Talk to you.  DF 
Lou's right, I probably won't be able to help answer any questions, but I am happy to offer my insights on how to cut his budget.   DF 09/07/2000 06:47 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 09/07/2000 06:47 PM 09/07/2000 06:47 PM 
do we ever end these financial reviews???  i'm on pins and needles waiting to be ""summoned"" to expalin the $10 million ""Soldano settlement"" and i never get a call.... i'll be in montana on monday...any questions about legal, indian row or environmental please call drew...he won't be able to help but call him anyway... legal should be in good shape - just let mike know if anything comes up. Stan knows the situation on the indian ROW (i asked him how he wanted to show it in the budget) . i don't think we have issues for environmental but bill kendrick would be in the best position to answer any questions (sorry bill)....i'll be in friday morning if you think we need to discuss anything....thx Elaine Concklin 09/07/2000 06:38 PM 
REMINDER: 3rd Current Estimate Officer Review for NNG and TW Monday,  September 11, 2000 1:30 - 3:00 PM EB49C2 / OMA717 Thanks,  Elaine 
P.s., thanks for the offer on the duck lease--I may want to join you sometime!  DF Kevin Hyatt 09/08/2000 12:32 PM 
Tell you what, just to make sure I can tell the difference between the lab and the Hen, I'll bring my own Lab!  Besides, when I hunted there last, we couldn't shoot hens. PS-- I have my personal duck lease down here that we can also make available.  There are overnight quarters if we need them.  (Last year we took over 600 ducks off the properties). KH John Dushinske 09/07/2000 03:03 PM 
Drew - Depends if they can recognize the difference between a Lab and a Hun. We just received the renewal notice for 2000/01.  I recommended to Dave N. that we renew the membership. I will ask Rosemary to give both of you notice when she gets the approval from Dave. Once approved we would be happy to help set up outings. Thanks.  John 
I'm inclined to agree that its not worth responding to.  They also argued that imbalances should not be dollar valued before netting and trading are available, but that strikes me as an industry wid e policy issue and not a TW specific issue.  Any other thoughts?  DF Susan Scott 12/06/2000 09:20 AM 
We did not answer protests to our Order 637 filing. The gist of PNM's protest in RP00-626 is that we shouldn't be able to charge a transport or fuel fee for our imbalance netting and trading service.  I agree with PNM that our tariff language is vague in this regard.  What exactly do we mean by ""no additional cost...unless through the allocation process, quantities may be subject to transportation and fuel""??   Can someone help me with this? Since we really did not want to make this compliance filing anyway, I would say we probably wouldn't mind if FERC rejected our tariff sheet outright. However, it's more likely that they will just instruct us to clarify our language.  Or they could tell us to remove the ""subject to transportation and fuel"" provision.  If we want to preserve our right to charge transport and fuel, it might be worthwhile filing something in the way of an answer. However, I am going to need some assistance in understanding what the language means and why we think we can do it, so I can justify it to FERC. Any comments you have in this regard would be appreicated. 
Should we respond to PNM's protest of the dollar valuation of imbalances prior to netting and trading?  Did we already respond to this issue when they filed their protest of the 637 filing?  DF 
Great--Texans know the difference between a dog and a bird.  Still unclear whether they recognize the distinction between a hen and a hun!!!  (Read John's email more carefully!)  Of course, at Pheasant Haven you can shoot both (and probably the dogs too) so the difference doesn't matter.  Kevin, I've been thinking about your original reqeust and may need to exercise the Legal Dept. veto.  These customers of yours are the same ones that can't drive a jet ski without paramedics around, right?  And now you want them wandering around Nebraska heavily armed???  What the hell are you thinking? DF Kevin Hyatt 09/08/2000 12:32 PM 
Tell you what, just to make sure I can tell the difference between the lab and the Hen, I'll bring my own Lab!  Besides, when I hunted there last, we couldn't shoot hens. PS-- I have my personal duck lease down here that we can also make available.  There are overnight quarters if we need them.  (Last year we took over 600 ducks off the properties). KH John Dushinske 09/07/2000 03:03 PM 
Drew - Depends if they can recognize the difference between a Lab and a Hun. We just received the renewal notice for 2000/01.  I recommended to Dave N. that we renew the membership. I will ask Rosemary to give both of you notice when she gets the approval from Dave. Once approved we would be happy to help set up outings. Thanks.  John 
Awesome!  Tell Brother Dick that we're thinking about the camping deal--he's macho enough to groove on that.  Bummer about your dog rule--I was looking forward to sneezing all night.  DF ""Loon, Douglas"" <DLoon@USChamber.com> on 09/08/2000 09:30:19 AM 
Damn.  I'm still in third place.  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 09/08/2000 08:54 AM 
Congratulations.  My tenure (I think it is on a bronze plaque in the entry way on the first floor of the Enron building in Omaha) was 25 April 1994 to 7 June 1996.  Say hello to Sandra.   mcs Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
You apparently didn't get this because my computer refuses to recognize your correct address.  Maybe this will work--I figured you'd want an opportunity to rebut.  Frank responded (through Deb Cappielo--he didn't have the guts to call himself) that he actually held the Gen. Couns. and Marketing VP jobs simultaneously for 3 months so I'm still way short of matching his record.DF 
In case you haven't already marked your calendars, tomorrow will be my two year anniversary with the company.   The good Lord willing (and with Stan's and Mike's continued acquiescence) I may even surpass the tenure of my two most recent and very illustrious predecessors.  Given your meteoric career tracks, however, I'm not sure you guys would view that as a huge accomplishment.  Hope all goes well with you both.  Adios from the big O. DF 
You apparently didn't get this because my computer refuses to recognize your correct address.  Maybe this will work--I figured you'd want an opportunity to rebut.  Frank responded (through Deb Cappielo--he didn't have the guts to call himself) that he actually held the Gen. Couns. and Marketing VP jobs simultaneously for 3 months so I'm still way short of matching his record.DF 
In case you haven't already marked your calendars, tomorrow will be my two year anniversary with the company.   The good Lord willing (and with Stan's and Mike's continued acquiescence) I may even surpass the tenure of my two most recent and very illustrious predecessors.  Given your meteoric career tracks, however, I'm not sure you guys would view that as a huge accomplishment.  Hope all goes well with you both.  Adios from the big O. DF 
Here's the deal--I just talked to my guy out in Kennebec S.D. and got a glowing report on the situation.  His opening day group is down to 6 guys so he is only giving them access to half of his fields--we get first shot at the rest.  He's got so many pheasants he's worried about us limiting out to fast and getting mad.    I assured him that the way we all shoot that wouldn't be a problem. When:  Friday-Sunday, Oct. 27-29. Where:  Kenebec S.D.  (about 2 hours east of Rapid City, about 5 hours from Omaha) $$:   $75 per guy per day if we have at least 8 guys.   If we dwindle to less than 8, its $100 per guy.  (he will cut us some slack on this if some of you can only hunt 2 days.) Fish:  Walleye fish fry on Sat. PM included Lodging :  Super 8 in Chamberlain--about 30 miles away if the weather is cold, possible camping in Kennebec if people are up for it.  Super 8 is a lovely place:  motto is ""Labs sleep free.""  $100 per night, 4 guys per room+ $25/head/night. So far, I think we've got 5 or 6 guys locked in solid. Another 6 or 8 have been invited but are obtaining spousal consent.   I'd like to get 10 locked in solid by end of Sept.  More than that would make the hunting a little clumsy.  Bay, my wife says you can't come because your new kid is due around this time.  What a lame excuse!!  You were there for the first 4, right? Doesn't a guy deserve a bye eventually?  If you guys have anyone else that's interested other than the folks that have already been invited, let me know as we may want to invite a few more just to make sure we have around 10. Talk to you.  DF 
Good question.  I think John is the designated hen shooter on the Omaha marketing team.  John, do we even allow TW people to use Pheasant Haven?  DF Kevin Hyatt 09/06/2000 05:03 PM 
How do I get set up to take customers out on the ET&S pheasant hunts at the club?  Who do I need to call? thanks KH 
Great!  L.D. is sending around a new slightly modified term sheet--lets talk tomorrow.  I want to get Lee into this also.  Thanks.  DF 
I don't know what she is even talking about.  Why does MKM have someone ""coordinating"" the migration to Windows 2000?  Doesn't the IT dept. do that, or has MKM taken over the IT dept?  What ""issues"" could we possibly have???? Even if we had issues (which I most certainly do not, in spite of what everyone says) how could we possibly get the IT juggernaut to pay attention? 
Are you coordinating for legal on migrating to Windows 2000?  Mary Kay asked me (at her staff meeting) who was in charge for legal and I had no idea what she was even talking about.  Do you know anything about this?   If so, can you pls. coordinate with Naomi regarding possible issues that she has already identified.  Thanks, Maria 
Thanks.  Unfortunately, I think the answers are yes and yes. Kathy Ringblom 09/05/2000 02:49 PM 
Well, I'm not sure how responsive Dot's response was to your initial communication, but I agree that there is a 10 year retention policy on contracts and agreements and their backup.  This to me would only apply to all of the gas purchase contracts we pulled from storage, most of which are probably close to the end of the 10 years.  Litigation workpapers, which to me would include all of the pleadings, correspondence, discovery, exhibits, depositions, etc., have a six year retention.  The other documents we pulled from storage but didn't produce, such as Mike McGowan's and Mary Kay's old files on take-or-pay issues, FERC orders, etc., would have different retention policies depending upon their content. 2 questions : - I assume if we produced an old 3-year plan, even though it should have been destroyed long ago, it would now fall under the 6 year litigation workpaper retention policy? -Do you think documents from the first trial have to ""start over"" and be kept for another 6 years? 
Jeff and Jeff--Pls keep me and Kathy Ringblom posted on whatever you find. Thanks. DF Jeffery Fawcett 09/05/2000 01:31 PM 
Jeff, Is it possible for TW to get a copy of the Edison filing at the CPUC?  While the article [shown below] doesn't provide any details, I suspect Edison's complaint echoes earlier allegations against El Paso regarding their sale of the 1.2 Bcf/d block of capacity to their affiliate.  I don't think Transwestern and/or Enron affiliate marketing companies are implicated in this deal at all. Can you confirm this is an ""El Paso only"" problem and not something Enron is being drawn into?  I really appreciate your help here. 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
A team of folks including Dari, Glen Hass, Don Vignaroli, etc have beaten these issues to death--we have a very detailed set of materials summarizing the findings of the group.  Bob Burleson should know that, as I think he was at the meeting when we went over this stuff.  Viggy, did we get the info from our briefing on the matrix to the no-shows like Steve Harris and John Dushinske (and Bob if he was a no show?)  If not, we ought to send it to them and ask them to call for follow up.  DF Lee Huber 12/05/2000 05:21 PM 
Who in certificates has looked at the issues of using our compreesor turbines to generate electricity?? Also has anyone in Legal done any research on PUHCA issues. I was just speaking with Bob Burleson and Rod Hayslett about these issues. Rod said that Danny is very interested and is considering power generation on the Florida system.  Do you know who from legal is on that team? i assume there may be marketing affiliate isues also ?? 
Does this fit our understanding of the policies?  DF 
On Conoco, I would think athat drafts of the settlement agreement -- to the extent there could be future disagreement over what was done/meant, etc. might be important.  Otherwise, with agreements that are terminated/expired, the retention policy is to retain them for 10 years (last time I saw a retention policy on contracts, that is; also, the reson behind the 10 years was that, although the gen'l stat. of limit. in Texas was 4 years, the stat. of limit, in Nebraska was, I think, 6 years, and then some additional time was thought to be appropriate). For copies of contracts, no retention period is required, as I recall.  Since you had outside counsel, they will likely retain all the documents from the case itself. --Dot 
We are now addressing the distasteful task of sorting through the mountain of files accumulated during the Conoco litigation.  Kathy is taking the lead on reviewing our document retention policies and advising Britt and I of what she thinks we can destroy and what we need to keep.  In some instances, the appropriate approach is not entirely clear.  Have you folks run across any ""document retention policy specialists"" that she ought to talk to?  We have a fairly detailed policy applicable to ""Interstate Law"" (which I guess means GPG law--the policy document is fairly old) but I'm less clear on what authority or right Legal has to enforce the doc. retention policy as to other groups.  Rod Hayslett suggested during Conoco that it would be good if Legal followed up now and then and made sure that pack rats were following the policy.   His comment arose from a little situation in which we were served with requests for ""3 year plans"" and Rod was displeased  to learn that some folks had kept old plans from 10 years ago.  He (and I suspect all of us) would be happier if that didn't happen again.  Any thoughts?  Thanks. DF 
Please get copies to me asap of the Edison motion and the CPUC FERC complaint.  Has someone, maybe someone at ENA, already looked at any allegations about Enron or TW?  Please forward these to Kathy Ringblom also and I'll have her itemize any allegations we might want to repond to. Thanks  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
Love to.  I'll probably be down in Houston next week--most likely thur-fri. I'll call you when I know fer shure.  Pheasant gig is around Oct 27-30 or so.  More detail to follow.  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 09/05/2000 06:41:24 AM 
Give em hell in the deposition my friend!  If you get the chance, ask them how much of that $400 mm they set aside for you!   Hey, we need to talk about something else--I'm getting a pheasant hunting trip organized for late Oct.  Interested?  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 09/01/2000 06:37:54 AM 
Your new boss??? Did you see what Duke paid for MHP??  $400 mm!!!  What were they smoking?  Give me a line when you get the chance--we're overdue on getting together.  DF 
AQUILA ENERGY NAMES LEADER OF ITS COMMODITY SERVICES GROUP Aquila Energy, a  wholly owned subsidiary of UtiliCorp United, recently named  Kevin Fox senior vice president and general manager of its Commodity  Services group. 
Yuck.  I am eager to discuss this with you both.  DF 
We are now addressing the distasteful task of sorting through the mountain of files accumulated during the Conoco litigation.  Kathy is taking the lead on reviewing our document retention policies and advising Britt and I of what she thinks we can destroy and what we need to keep.  In some instances, the appropriate approach is not entirely clear.  Have you folks run across any ""document retention policy specialists"" that she ought to talk to?  We have a fairly detailed policy applicable to ""Interstate Law"" (which I guess means GPG law--the policy document is fairly old) but I'm less clear on what authority or right Legal has to enforce the doc. retention policy as to other groups.  Rod Hayslett suggested during Conoco that it would be good if Legal followed up now and then and made sure that pack rats were following the policy.   His comment arose from a little situation in which we were served with requests for ""3 year plans"" and Rod was displeased  to learn that some folks had kept old plans from 10 years ago.  He (and I suspect all of us) 
Give em hell in the deposition my friend!  If you get the chance, ask them how much of that $400 mm they set aside for you!   Hey, we need to talk about something else--I'm getting a pheasant hunting trip organized for late Oct. Interested?  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 09/01/2000 06:37:54 AM 
Your new boss??? Did you see what Duke paid for MHP??  $400 mm!!!  What were they smoking?  Give me a line when you get the chance--we're overdue on getting together.  DF 
AQUILA ENERGY NAMES LEADER OF ITS COMMODITY SERVICES GROUP Aquila Energy, a  wholly owned subsidiary of UtiliCorp United, recently named  Kevin Fox senior vice president and general manager of its Commodity  Services group. 
Looks good to me--and I agree that we ought to use if for internal purposes only.  If people at the customer meeting want more detail than you guys are able to provide orally, we could consider adding detail to the FERC filing or even sending them some additional explanation that we may or may not decide to file with FERC.  Good luck today!  DF Jeffery Fawcett 08/31/2000 09:11 AM 
I'm distributing [internally] the brief answers we've crafted for each of the customer's questions.  I think we're on pretty solid ground in each case.  As mentioned below, we won't be distrubuting these answers during the workshop. We'll use them for our own purposes in answering the questions orally.  If you have any questions regarding this issue, please let me know. 
Susan, You hit the ball right down the middle.  I think we've answered these questions [more than] adequately.  I do not intend to distribute these answers in written form.  Rather, we'll answer them orally during the presentation, and use your work product as a guideline for our answers. Thanks for your hard work here. 
In case you haven't already marked your calendars, tomorrow will be my two year anniversary with the company.   The good Lord willing (and with Stan's and Mike's continued acquiescence) I may even surpass the tenure of my two most recent and very illustrious predecessors.  Given your meteoric career tracks, however, I'm not sure you guys would view that as a huge accomplishment.  Hope all goes well with you both.  Adios from the big O. 
pls print asap.  df 
Attached for your convenience find the latest drafts of the Transport Options documents.  These documents were sent to our workshop participants late yesterday as a means to facilitate our discussions tomorrow.  I suspect we'll have small changes to incorporate based on the comments we receive in the workshop.  If you have any questions, please let me know. 
I called Tino today to let him know that our affiliates are sniffing around a power plant opportunity and potential gas bypass pipeline in Albuquerque. Kevin, you should be getting a call from a guy in Portland whose name I can't seem to find right now.  He had gotten my name from Thome out there and called to let me know that ENA is interested in pitching either PNM or some outfit called ""Delta"" on development or expansion of a gas-fired power plant in the south part of Albuquerque.  It didn't sound to me like ENA was very far along in their deal.  I explained to this guy what we were involved in and swore him to confidentiality.  I also told him he need to call either Kevin or Steve before he talked to PNM.  I thought it was a little curious that ENA is interested in generation in Alb. all of a sudden. On the Tino front, he apologized for not calling after their big DOE meeting.  He said it went very well and that DOE is considering their offer--$.085/Kwh power less revenue sharing for all surplus power sold.  Tino and Dennis offered DOE 70% of the $$ from the surplus power sales until a certain target is hit (probably a target equivalent to DOE's current PNM rate less 10%) and then 30% of any additional $$.   Tino and Dennis really blew some smoke by showing the DOE guys this summer's Four Corners spot prices (generally in the $200-400/mwh range) and doing the math for them. On that basis, the net delivered power cost after rebate comes pretty close to zero. Even using a more reasonable sampling of Four Corners prices, the DOE price is apparently better than their current PNM price.  The big issue is whether DOE can figure out how to keep the rebate $$ at Sandia, rather than lose the $$ to treasury.   Sounds like the Dennis and Tino show is still flogging this deal pretty hard, so I reminded Tino that we are eager to do anything we can to help. Bill or Kevin, please forward this to Bill Gang--I couldn't get my computer to recognize his name. 
Congratulations on the move!  Its great to see a reorg that actually seems to make so much sense!  Thanks again to you and Terry for watching the three stooges on Saturday night.  It was great seeing you guys again and getting the kids a chance to play for a while.  We'd love to return the favor next time you come up to Omaha--the weather is getting real nice right about now!!  DF 
I'm OK with this agreement.  Christine, I appreciate your explanation of how we developed the rate.  Hopefully, once FERC approves our purchase and sale of options, we can price them as a stand alone service.  For now, including the optionality as a bundled component of the total discounted rate--as we did here--is appropriate. Christine Stokes 08/28/2000 03:00 PM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE COMPANY CONTRACT APPROVAL REQUEST Please review the attached non-standard discount letter to Red Cedar Gathering Company (Red Cedar).  The discount letter provides Red Cedar a five year discount rate, beginning January 1, 2001, for 125,000 Dth/d of Red Cedar to El Paso/Blanco capacity for year 1, and 150,000 Dth/d of described capacity for years 2-5. The base transportation rate for the described capacity is $.02/Dth/d, escalating at $.005/Dth/d per year.  Red Cedar is also paying an additional $.001/Dth/d for a one-time option to request to reduce their total MDQ in years 4 & 5 to a level between 100,000-150,000 Dth/day.  Also,  year 1 of the discount rate includes a ""reimbursement surcharge"" of approximately $.009/Dth/d for Transwestern's capital expenditure required to increase the existing receipt point capacity at the Red Cedar interconnect. Red Cedar has been provided alternate delivery capabilty at Transwestern's I/B Link, in addition to alternate receipt capability at a proposed new interconnect with Red Cedar in Transwestern's Ignacio to Blanco Area. Please indicated approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.  If any questions arise, please contact me at x5702.   All Officers approvals will be forwarded to Dan McCarty for final Officer approval. 
pls set up an hour on this sometime tomorrow am if possible.  thanks df 
Interesting.  I remember vaguely that we had some concern with how VAR was calculated.  I recall that Dave Neubauer didn't think that we were doing it right for TW.  Do you remember this issue?  If so, does this change address the same issue?  Also, I'll line up a meeting today or tomorrow on  the TW options filing in general, and we can discuss the customer meeting and also touch on this internal controls issue.  Thanks  DF 
Please Note: The Corporate Risk Management Department prepares ET&S's Value at Risk calculation.  They recently completed a review of our historical experience and correlation on our hedged positions.  Based on this review, we have agreed to increase the correlation to .90.  This change has caused the V@R to decrease significantly to more appropriately reflect the risk in our positions.  We will continue to work with Risk Management to assure that our exposures are being appropriately reflected in the V@R calculation. If there are any question regarding the V@R calculation, please contact Dan Fancler or Bob Chandler. 
Interesting.  I remember vaguely that we had some concern with how VAR was calculated.  I recall that Dave Neubauer didn't think that we were doing it right for TW.  Do you remember this issue?  If so, does this change address the same issue?  Also, I'll line up a meeting today or tomorrow on  the TW options filing in general, and we can discuss the customer meeting and also touch on this internal controls issue.  Thanks  DF 
Please Note: The Corporate Risk Management Department prepares ET&S's Value at Risk calculation.  They recently completed a review of our historical experience and correlation on our hedged positions.  Based on this review, we have agreed to increase the correlation to .90.  This change has caused the V@R to decrease significantly to more appropriately reflect the risk in our positions.  We will continue to work with Risk Management to assure that our exposures are being appropriately reflected in the V@R calculation. If there are any question regarding the V@R calculation, please contact Dan Fancler or Bob Chandler. 
Don't think so--where was he before his current job?  DF ""Alan Jenkins"" <ajenkins@lanlaw.com> on 08/25/2000 01:26:24 PM 
Have you ever met the fellow?  He's general counsel over at Southern Energy Marketing in town here and was in D.C. for about 10 years - about your age 
I think we are pretty well covered on this issue--thanks for checking!  DF Tom Rutherford <comd3@swcp.com> on 08/24/2000 08:56:11 PM 
are you following the carlsbad, n.m. pipeline explosion? shall we send you clips about it? Drew.Fossum@enron.com wrote: > > Leslie, I'll follow up with Mike McGowan.  Is there an invoice or something > floating around that you are aware of?  Shall we just send to you Tom and > have you get it to the right place?  I'm not sure anyone has been hired yet > to fill Tim's position, but I know that is in progress.  Mike--please give > me a call re: this.  Thanks. DF > > Leslie Lawner@EES > 08/21/2000 09:13 AM > 
> > Drew, Tom has informed me that Enron has never paid for the table that Tim > Aron got for the Secretary Richardson fundraiser (last April) and the tab > is $2500.  I know in hindsight we may not want to give Richardson any money > since he blew his chance at becoming VP (just joking) but we do need to > pay.  Tom's email address is above and perhaps he can tell you where to > mail the check. > > I also have a couple of other obligations that Tim Aron undertook that I > need to follow up on, has someone been hired, or should I go through you? > > Thanks. 
OK.  DF 
For Approval 
Leslie, I'll follow up with Mike McGowan.  Is there an invoice or something floating around that you are aware of?  Shall we just send to you Tom and have you get it to the right place?  I'm not sure anyone has been hired yet to fill Tim's position, but I know that is in progress.  Mike--please give me a call re: this.  Thanks. DF Leslie Lawner@EES 08/21/2000 09:13 AM 
Drew, Tom has informed me that Enron has never paid for the table that Tim Aron got for the Secretary Richardson fundraiser (last April) and the tab is $2500.  I know in hindsight we may not want to give Richardson any money since he blew his chance at becoming VP (just joking) but we do need to pay. Tom's email address is above and perhaps he can tell you where to mail the check. I also have a couple of other obligations that Tim Aron undertook that I need to follow up on, has someone been hired, or should I go through you? Thanks. 
Have you guys met/discussed this with Michele?  Please get me up to speed. Thanks DF 
As you are aware, Transwestern is working with a shipper to potentially provide service to a new power plant located approximately 40 miles off the mainline in Arizona.  Although, the final negotiation are not complete certain options are being evaluated, I need some assistance in interpreting the regulations regarding the authority we should use for approval of this project. The facilities that would be constructed include a delivery point and approximately 40 miles of pipe.  As these facilities are non-mainline, it may be possible to construct the proposed facilities under the prior notice provisions of TW's blanket certificate, provided the project satisfies the blanket criteria (generally costs and environmental). With this in mind, I have the following issues and questions: Preliminarily, marketing is thinking that we may want to develop an incremental rate  to recover the cost of the project. Would a new incremental rate for this service impact our ability to file for approval under the prior notice provisions?  Note: Generally, Subpart F of Part 157 (blanket regulations) does not address service issues as transportation service is provided under Part 284 of the Commission's regulations.  However, the regulations (o157.204)  set forth Who may apply for a blanket certificate.   The criteria includes, among other things, any interstate pipeline that has rates accepted by the Commission.  Therefore, would an incremental rate have to be approved by the Commission before the proposed facilities would be blanket eligible? Can a new incremental rate be established through a limit-section 4 rate filing or is a case-specific certificate required? As the facilities will not include any mainline expansion - Is an open season required for the project?  My opinion is ""NO"".  Do you agree? Your thoughts and assistance in this matter would be greatly appreciated. Thanks MW 
Tony, I agree it look s fine.  I've talked briefly with Glen and emailed my thoughts to them, but haven't had a chance to walk Glen and MKM through what we discussed yesterday.  DF Teb Lokey 08/16/2000 03:18 PM 
Looks good to me ,too. Frazier King 08/16/2000 03:14 PM 
Looks good. 08/15/2000 06:42 PM Tony Pryor Tony Pryor Tony Pryor 08/15/2000 06:42 PM 08/15/2000 06:42 PM 
Attached is a revised draft of the text appearing with the long product description on EOL, as discussed today. The purpose of the additional paragraph is to eliminate the need for a separate submission of a request for service. Please give me your feedback/comments. 
Give me a call when you get the chance to look at this and I'll update you on the discussion we had yesterday on automating the request for service process.  Shelley, Tony and myself got comfortable that with a few changes to the verbiage a customer sees before he clicks on a parcel of capacity, and with a couple of minor limitations on the capacity we sell (i.e., no Subpart B-restricted 311 capacity parcels) Northern will be able to treat a customer's click on a parcel of capacity as submission of a request for service. 
Attached is a revised draft of the text appearing with the long product description on EOL, as discussed today. The purpose of the additional paragraph is to eliminate the need for a separate submission of a request for service. Please give me your feedback/comments. 
Should we respond to PNM's protest of the dollar valuation of imbalances prior to netting and trading?  Did we already respond to this issue when they 
Count me in!  DF Tony Pryor 08/14/2000 04:50 PM Sent by: Janet Cones 
There will be a meeting regarding Enron OnLine tomorrow, Tuesday, August 15th from 3:30 until 4:30 p.m., in EB 4102.  Video conferencing will be available should Drew or Maria be able to attend. 
Oh oh.  Time for another nomination? 
I suspect this didn't get to you as I originally used your MSN address.  DF 
Attached is my redline of your Sat. draft.  In addition to the revisions in the doc, I have a few questions and concerns: 1.  On the segmenting section, I think it is a fine legal argument, but it lacks something.  What is our ""or else"" position?  Does the Global Settlement give us any FERC-out rights or colorable argument that the entire deal should be unwound if FERC screws up the segmenting issue?  I'm not suggesting that we should trigger a FERC out if we have one, but if we arguably do, we should consider threatening to use it.  I'm afraid we come across as whiny and 
I have tried to incorporate comments from our meeting last Thursday as well as written comments provided to me.  There are still some areas that we need to decide on.  For example, we need to determine if arbitrage argument works and finalize related Exhibits.  Also, re:  daily imbalance pricing at points that have EFM, are we keeping the 25,000 Dth??  Also, I'm not sure whether we confirmed that we have only called one Alert Day since 1994.  Finally, we need to double check the tariff language on autobalancing per note on page 29 of draft.  Please review and provide me with comments early on Monday. Thanks.  Maria 
Attached is my redline of your Sat. draft.  In addition to the revisions in the doc, I have a few questions and concerns: 1.  On the segmenting section, I think it is a fine legal argument, but it lacks something.  What is our ""or else"" position?  Does the Global Settlement give us any FERC-out rights or colorable argument that the entire deal should be unwound if FERC screws up the segmenting issue?  I'm not suggesting that we should trigger a FERC out if we have one, but if we arguably do, we should consider threatening to use it.  I'm afraid we come across as whiny and 
I have tried to incorporate comments from our meeting last Thursday as well as written comments provided to me.  There are still some areas that we need to decide on.  For example, we need to determine if arbitrage argument works and finalize related Exhibits.  Also, re:  daily imbalance pricing at points that have EFM, are we keeping the 25,000 Dth??  Also, I'm not sure whether we confirmed that we have only called one Alert Day since 1994.  Finally, we need to double check the tariff language on autobalancing per note on page 29 of draft.  Please review and provide me with comments early on Monday. Thanks.  Maria 
Please take a look at Vig's effort to detect price arbitrage behavior on TW using the same method that Steve Kirk used on Northern.  You'll recall that Steve's chart on Northern showed an very close correlation between the calculated arb opportunity and the direction and size of the aggregate customer imbalances, by month.  Proving once again that TW is just a little different, that method shows no correlation at all on TW.  I agree with Vig's conclusion that we should not use this data in the 637 filing. I tried one alternative reading of the data to see if I could find a correlation.  Steve's method evenly weights the value of arb opportunities that occur early and late in a month.  Please tell me if you agree, marketing folks, but I think a more logical approach would risk-weight the apparent arb opportunites.  In other words, an apparent opportunity to short TW and sell the gas for a $.25/mmbtu profit on the 5th of a month is unlikely to generate arb behavior because a trader has no idea on the 5th what the cash out index will be at the end of the month.  In contrast, an opportunity to make $.25 on the 25th of a month, when a trader can calculate pretty closely what the monthly index will be, is basically free money.  Using that logic, I ignored any apparent arb opportunites in the first half of the month.   I eyeballed the timing and size of the arb opportunites (i.e., there's a $.70-.90 arb opportunity to short TW from the 23d to the end of May, 2000) rather than using Steve's mathematical approach.   I still didn't see the kind of correlation I'd expect.  The correlation is directionally positive in only 4 out of 12 months, and the size of the imbalances doesn't even make sense in the months that correlate on direction.  I give up, and am removing the arb argument from the daily imbalance section of the draft.  I'll route that separately. Thanks to Vig, Susan, Lorraine and Richard for hustling on this analysis. ""Its better to try [to find a correlation] and fail than never to try at all. 
please print.  thanks df 
Looks good--one typo in bullet 4, I think ""not addressing"" should be ""nor addressing.""   Please bcc me and Mike on the final version.  Thanks df 
pls print and put both mtgs on my sch.  thanks df 
Just a reminder of the ET&S Officer Reviews scheduled for Friday, August 11, 2000 in the video conference rooms EB49C2 in Houston and 717 in Omaha. Both meetings have been moved back by 30 minutes to accomodate schedules. 3rd Quarter Forecast Review - 2:00 - 3:00 PM  (was 1:30 - 2:30 PM) Preliminary 3 Year Plan Assumptions - 3:00 - 4:00 PM  (was 2:30 - 3:30 PM) Thanks to all for the feedback.  Please see attached files for the assumption review at 3PM Friday. Thanks,  Elaine 
Ugh.  We are in for a battle.  Some of this may be OK, but I detect an underlying philosophy that pipelines should simply not be allowed into markets that unregulated players (using the gray market or financial products) currently have monopoly control over.  DF 
pls print.  thanks df 
Lou Harrison (insurance guy) will call tomorrow--please schedule an appt. at his joint next wk--Wed Thur or Fri.  Preferably 4:00 or later so I can hit 
pls print for my mtg tomorrow.  thanks df 
Excellent.  DF 
Bueno.  DF 
Any news on looking at the NiSource storage stuff?  Have we gotten the packet from Chase or whichever investment banker guys you talked to?  I heard again from a non-Enron source that ""Enron is looking at the MHP assets"" so it must 
I'm on vacation and unreachable the 21st through the 23d, but will be in Houston on the 24th--10:00 would work fine.  If you've got Lou and Mike, you may not need me as they are the GPG Law designated spokesmodels on 2001 plan issues.  DF 
Not that I know of.   DF Martha Benner 08/08/2000 10:31 AM 
Have you received this bill as yet? Thanks.....Martha 
pls print.  thanks df 
Here is Mark Haedicke's eCommerce powerpoint presentation which he will make next Friday at the Energy Bar Luncheon.  It look's like it will be VERY good.  If you do not have a form to submit your reservations, let me know and I will have Janet make you a copy.  The deadline is next Tuesday. 
per the request of Mark Taylor, please see this attachment: 
Oh, how about sending one to Barrett Reasoner at Gibbs and Bruns and ask Britt Davis if he wants one.  Thanks DF 
No--that ought to do it.  DF 
I'm booked from 10-11, 11:45-1:30 and 2-3.  I can stay after school if necessary.  DF Susan Scott 12/05/2000 04:08 PM 
Can we get together tomorrow to discuss the market based rates issues I raised last week? If you can do it tomorrow, let me know what times you are not available and I'll schedule something around them.  Thanks. 
Drew and Sandra Fossum 6068 Country Club Oaks Pl. Omaha, NE  68152 Cindy Stark 08/04/2000 10:02 AM 
Hello, everyone!     Stan would like to request your home address and spouse name.     Please respond to me via e-mail today, if possible. Thanks, Cindy 
I'm OK with it, thanks to some coaching from Jeff.  I would suggest that our marketers specifically mention to all interested bidders (especially Texaco) that the lottery tiebreaker is clearly identified in the posting and if they want to be there to witness it they better call us because we don't send out engraved invitations.  Good luck.  DF Christine Stokes 08/03/2000 01:51 PM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE INTERACTIVE OPEN SEASON APPROVAL Please review the attached announcement of Transwestern's Interactive Open Season to be held Thursday, August 10, 2000.  Transwestern will be offering 14,000 Dth/d of East of Thoreau to PG&E/Topock capacity for a term of April 1, 2001 - October 31, 2001.  Alternate capacity rights associated with the primary capacity shall include alternate receipts in Transwestern's East of Thoreau Area, excluding Rio Puerco, and alternate deliveries at SoCal/Needles, Mojave/Topock and the Citizens Griffith delivery point . Please approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.  Your immediate attention is appreciated as our goal is to post the announcement as quickly as possible in the morning of Friday, August 4th. 
Oh, wait a minute--I was thinking current prices, not April-Oct. prices.  Is the basis  for that 7 month period below max rates? Christine Stokes 08/03/2000 01:51 PM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE INTERACTIVE OPEN SEASON APPROVAL Please review the attached announcement of Transwestern's Interactive Open Season to be held Thursday, August 10, 2000.  Transwestern will be offering 14,000 Dth/d of East of Thoreau to PG&E/Topock capacity for a term of April 1, 2001 - October 31, 2001.  Alternate capacity rights associated with the primary capacity shall include alternate receipts in Transwestern's East of Thoreau Area, excluding Rio Puerco, and alternate deliveries at SoCal/Needles, Mojave/Topock and the Citizens Griffith delivery point . Please approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.  Your immediate attention is appreciated as our goal is to post the announcement as quickly as possible in the morning of Friday, August 4th. 
Am I the only one having a deja vu experience?  I know you can't believe what you read, but the trade press makes it sound like capacity to California is worth about a zillion bucks--are we sure we want to do this???? DF Christine Stokes 08/03/2000 01:51 PM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE INTERACTIVE OPEN SEASON APPROVAL Please review the attached announcement of Transwestern's Interactive Open Season to be held Thursday, August 10, 2000.  Transwestern will be offering 14,000 Dth/d of East of Thoreau to PG&E/Topock capacity for a term of April 1, 2001 - October 31, 2001.  Alternate capacity rights associated with the primary capacity shall include alternate receipts in Transwestern's East of Thoreau Area, excluding Rio Puerco, and alternate deliveries at SoCal/Needles, Mojave/Topock and the Citizens Griffith delivery point . Please approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.  Your immediate attention is appreciated as our goal is to post the announcement as quickly as possible in the morning of Friday, August 4th. 
I think you said you have this covered, but just in case, here is the latest.  DF 
By now I'm sure that you've heard about the upcoming electric industry class that has been customized for GPG staff.   The purpose of the class is to learn about electric utilities as our customers, learn about some of the current regulatory and legislative debates and the impact on us, and to learn about the economics of electric generation. The class will be held on August 25 at the Downtown Houston Doubletree Hotel, Granger Rooms A & B  from 8-5 PM.  Stan Horton will open the class with remarks on why he believes GPG needs to learns about economics and trends in the electric industry.  The class includes a full day of course work and a working lunch will be served.   A  workbook is being prepared and will be distributed to you a week prior to the class. I hope you can attend.  Similar industry classes can cost upwards of $600 per student.   Our customized class can accommodate up to 100 attendees.   Please RSVP to Ruth Mann by email by August 8 if you plan to attend.  Once I get a count of attendees from this list, I will open the class up to other GPG attendees. 
pls print.  thanks df 
Please see Henry's note below. Thanks!  Elaine 
Please send me the NN and TW operating reports from the minutes of the last meeting.  I'm not sure we create a separate set of goals and objectives for each operating company, although Bill's ET&S goals and objectives obviously cover both.  I want to see if we need to create some kind of new document or whether we can use something off the shelf.  Thanks. DF Lee Huber 08/02/2000 03:39 PM 
We have scheduled Board of Directors meetings for TW and Northern on August 28, 2000. An agenda will be circulated soon along with proposed resolutions. Since we skipped a board meeting for TW last year, the operating report for TW should cover 1998 to the present for purposes of adopting any necessary resolutions.  For Northern, we will cover from 1999 to the present.  The minutes of past meetings indicate that you used an update of TW's and Northern's goals and objectives as the basis for the operating reports.  I assume that we will continue to do this for the upcoming meetings. 
I'm ok with the change.  Just curious, but Courtney doesn't get any  time value of money recognition on his prepayment?  Also, the prepayment gives us a cash, but not earnings, benefit, right?  Thanks.  DF James Centilli 08/01/2000 02:53 PM 
Susan Bob Chandler and I request some changes inorder to detail the upfront payment.  If you do not have any problems with the document, please advise and we will notify Gerald to create executables. Thanks, James 
Attached is the letter.  I am forwarding per Mark's request.  Let me know if you have any comments.  If everything looks good, let me know and I will create executables.  Thanks. 
pls print--I'll look at it in the am (maybe!) DF 
Speak of the devil.  Tino called, all full of optimism and questions.  They have pitched the DOE a deal in which Dennis builds three 50 Mw turbines on the Isleta, and a 7 mile power line to DOE's distribution lines.  The project will apparently be 100%debt financed, with DOE agreeing to pay a firm demand charge rate of between 8 and 9 cents/kwh.  That rate is supposedly high enough to service the debt on a 10 year amort. basis (remember, DOE can only sign 10 year contracts).  DOE is interested, says Tino, because of the redundant, dedicated facilities and enhanced reliability, and because Dennis and Tino pitched DOE on all the $$$$ DOE will make from the surplus power sales.  Dennis apparently pitched them a ""share the upside"" deal under which DOE keeps most of the revenue from surplus sales.  Tino showed DOE the July spot prices at 4 Corners, which Tino said included many days over $200/Mwh and they got all excited.  DOE has done a similar share the upside deal at one of its facilities in Calif. Tino says and they have occasionally come out net positive on elec. costs in some months so they like the approach.  Tino had two questions: 1.  Does TW have 30-40,000/d of permian capacity available starting sometime in 2001 or 2002?  (I realize we have probably answered this question about 5 times, but lets do it again for him). 2.  Is there someone at ENA Tino can talk to about a getting a quote for long term and/or short term power purchase prices for Four Corners delivery?   If he can get something the DOE thinks is a good price, they m ay just sell all the surplus power forward.  If not, they'll just hang on to it and sell it into the cash market in monthly and daily deals. 
Yes.  Sorry I forgot to cc you.  If it got lost in the process, have them send it again, or forward this email to payables as my approval.  thanks df DENISE LAGESSE 12/05/2000 10:51 AM 
Drew, Did you already approve this expense report and send it to accounting? Denise 
Here is the draft letter agreement.  We are still discussing it with ECS and can make whatever changes are appropriate.  Note that the letter agreement ties back to Article 6 of the Compression Services Agreement.  That article, you may recall, is where ECS agreed to create a computerized system that would monitor Continental Divide's electric system utilization and warn when their system peaks were occurring and then automatically take the compressor offline (subject to manual override) so we and ECS could avoid peak period demand charges.  Instead of creating such a system, which apparently turned out to be mostly a manual system anyway, ECS is going to pay us a monthly fee to monitor CD's system peaks ourselves and decide when we need to get off line.  The load management service has to do with operational management of the load we place on CD's electric system, and is not a jurisdictional gas transportation or storage service.  Note that the service goes on for 10 years (as required by the accountants' 10 year amortization rule) and thus may be vulnerable to scrutiny and potential revenue crediting in TW's 2007 rate case.  Any way to avoid that?  DF 
That, my man, is the $64 question.  Kim and Rockie are nailing this down first thing monday AM.  The result of our conversation on Friday with Conoco was that if we own it, they want it, and if we don't own it, we'd better not convey it to them.  Clever devils, they are forcing us to determine exactly what it is that we own!  Talk to you tomorrow.  DF 07/28/2000 04:44 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 07/28/2000 04:44 PM 07/28/2000 04:44 PM 
are we only selling the 12""??? 
I am not sure if this piece of pipe was addressed in the last correspondence or not. 
I didn't know you guys were both in the Moscow office now!  That's a pretty soviet system your network narcs have rigged up.  We ought to get a copy of it--it would keep Enerson and I from wasting 20 hours a week dealing with amusing videos.  Anyway, the vid you have been denied access to is not as interesting as you probably hoped--its the cartoon game of the guys sitting around at a meeting at which you can make them do things by clicking on icons--like click the cell phone and one guy calls the other one and yells ""Whaaaassssupppp!""  Its actually pretty amusing, unless you work at a third reich law firm (actually some guy at some other third reich law firm sent it 
Does anyone find it interesting that we've heard nothing but silence from Dennis and Tino?  I suspect that their big meeting with DOE on the 25th didn't go so well.  If you hear anything let me know, otherwise I'll try to 
Whaaasssssuuup.  Sack--you need to update me on where the hell you are these days.  Flying jets in Denver?  Chicago?  Where?  Reed, you need to check your emails more than once every 6 months.  Huet, I'll call you on the apple data tonight or tomorrow.   Loon, since I sent you a cool email, you need to invite me to at least one boondoggle on Wednesday (Dougie is going to the Fascist convention in Philadelphia all next week to schmooze).  Carmany, you are just weak--you need a wife and about 7 kids to throttle your lifestyle back a bit.  Egg and Kate--I have nothing mean to say to you just now, but I'll work on it.  DF 
The tie in line that TW built is not part of the deal.  We are modifying the agreements to make that totally clear and I believe Rockey is going to talk to Mary Ann Pearce to make sure there is no misunderstanding.  DF Bob Burleson 07/28/2000 10:40 AM 
Thought I would pass this along, I had not heard for sure that this line was part of the deal or not. We could make an argument that it is not part of the 
Please take a look at this and give me a call.  I didn't know we were expecting any agreement from ECS.  DF 
How does this draft look to you guys? Mark 
Rock on.  DF Lee Huber 07/27/2000 02:54 PM 
I spoke to Kim Watson today re the following  1. They will be kicking off the science part of the system on August 23  ET&S Marketing and other invitees 2. Matt Johnson from PROS called Kim yesterday to tell her that some pipeline has purchased PROS' storage product  and he asked how we were coming along. Kim said we had moved off in a different direction but that we would be interested in seeing their product, which we are trying to set up for the day before or after August 23.  3.  Since we seem to be rolling along on the dashboard and starting the science piece, we plan to get Stuart Ford (V&E) over here during the week of August 14th  to make sure we are doing all the right things to make sure this being protected as an Enron product which if it is sucessful  we will be able to sell to third parties.  OK with you?? 
I'm not sure I understand MKM's comment.  We've all approved this deal so its not urgent, but lets talk about it in our meeting today.  df 
lets talk re: this.  I'm troubled.  df 
I'll be in South Dakota from the 28th of December through the 3d of January. While there, I can be reached via my voice mail, which I will check daily, or through my cell phone at 402-630-8461.  At all other times, I will be Omaha and reachable at my office number, cell phone or home number of 
Thanks.  I'm about a 30.  DF Julie McCoy 07/24/2000 04:52 PM 
Hi Drew. Rob Wilson indicated that you may be available to participate in the Ray Janssen Golf Scramble on Monday, July 31. Here are the details: Where:  Elkhorn Valley Golf Club 410 North Main Street Hooper, NE Format:  18 Hole Scramble 11:30 AM Shotgun Start Dinner following at the Elkhorn Valley Golf Club The scramble committee will be assigning players to their teams according to their handicaps.  Please inform me of your golf handicap at your earliest convenience. Thank you! Julie 
No, we are paying them $3 mm in addition to handing them the Hobbs line and giving them the option on the Eldo-Spraberry line.  I haven't really thought about it, but I guess the transfer price for the Hobbs line should be some nominal amount--$10 or something.  I'll give you and Louie a call in a bit to discuss.  Thanks.  DF 
I just talked to Cynthia Sandherr about this and she was partly up to speed. They have been fighting with the CFTC to keep it from extending its jurisdiction to Enron Online and to all the financial products Enron sells. We apparently have a bill pending to lock the CFTC in and keep it from going after energy-related financial products.  Cynthia was not aware of any potential collaboration between CFTC and FERC designed to push FERC into the role of regulator of these markets (with CFTC pulling the strings behind the scenes).  Cynthia was cranky about this possibility and will follow up. DF 
He's not a nazi, he's a commie.  Actually he's a democrat but such subtle distinctions escape me.  What MKM is talking about is a conversation I had in DC with a buddy of mine who is a commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  He said there is a move afoot to expand regulation of financial products like weather hedges, spark spread swaps and similar industry specific instruments that his agency has not regulated in the past. (they just regulate the commodity exchanges like the NYMEX, Chicago Board of Trade, etc.)  He also made it sound like Enron Online had made his staff people more nervous about the lack of regulation over those kinds of products.  The current strategy, he explained, was to solve the problem of the CFTC's arguable lack of jurisdiction over such products by getting the agencies with jurisdiction over the industry to which such products were being sold (i.e., the FERC as to energy products) to regulate the stuff based on the CFTC's guidance.  I assume that Kean's group is on top of this, but I haven't had the chance to check yet.  I talked to a guy in the DC office about 6 months about CFTC issues and will follow up with him on Monday and be sure they are aware of this leftist plot.  I can't remember his name just now, but he works for Cynthia Sandherr, I think.  I'll let you know what is going on after I talk to those folks.  DF 
He's not a nazi, he's a commie.  Actually he's a democrat but such subtle distinctions escape me.  What MKM is talking about is a conversation I had in DC with a buddy of mine who is a commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  He said there is a move afoot to expand regulation of financial products like weather hedges, spark spread swaps and similar industry specific instruments that his agency has not regulated in the past. (they just regulate the commodity exchanges like the NYMEX, Chicago Board of Trade, etc.)  He also made it sound like Enron Online had made his staff people more nervous about the lack of regulation over those kinds of products.  The current strategy, he explained, was to solve the problem of the CFTC's arguable lack of jurisdiction over such products by getting the agencies with jurisdiction over the industry to which such products were being sold (i.e., the FERC as to energy products) to regulate the stuff based on the CFTC's guidance.  I assume that Kean's group is on top of this, but I haven't had the chance to check yet.  I talked to a guy in the DC office about 6 months about CFTC issues and will follow up with him on Monday and be sure they are aware of this leftist plot.  I can't remember his name just now, but he works for Cynthia Sandherr, I think.  I'll let you know what is going on after I talk to those folks.  DF 
Great summary.  Sounds like we have plenty to do.  Susan, lets talk Monday and coordinate the law/regulatory stuff.  Gracias.  DF Jeffery Fawcett 07/21/2000 12:36 PM 
TW and Caithness met in Denver this week for the first face-to-face meeting between the parties.  The purpose of the meeting was to review the status of the Caithness Big Sandy Project and to establish the next steps for moving the project forward. Caithness Corporation Caithness Corp. is a privately held company based in New York with a variety of business interests.  The company is essentially a financial vehicle for private investors.  Their energy segment currently owns 1,200 MW of generation through renewable assets in California (geothermal at Coso, wind in Tehachapi and Palm Springs) and a gas fired plant in South Carolina jointly-owned by Florida Power & Light. Big Sandy Project The Big Sandy Project is a proposed power plant to be located near Wickieup, Arizona.  The project would be built in two phases- first phase would be 550 MW, with a gas load of approx. 80,000 MMBtu/d, and phase 2 would add another 170 MW for a total of 720 MW with a gas load of 120,000 MMBtu/d. The proposed location of the plant is approximately 40 miles south of Transwestern's pipeline.  The take-off point on Transwestern would be at/near valve station #1008, approximately 15 miles downstream of compressor Station #1.  The current estimate includes an alignment that follows Arizona state highway 93 south to a location 2 miles southeast of Wickieup in the S/W 4 of Section 5, T15N, R12W, Mohave County, Arizona.  There is a 500 KV transmission line owned by WAPA that crosses the property.  This line is one of the principal electric transmission systems in the Southwest and extends from the Phoenix area to the Mead substation near Boulder City, NV.  I've included a WAPA map below which indicates this line.  Also, on the site is a water pipeline owned by the Cyprus Amax Bagdad mine.  Water for the plant will come from an encapusulated water table through deep wells.  They have currently dug the first two test wells, each capable of 500 cfm.  The power plant will require approximately 3,500 cfm of water.  In addition to the wells, the plant has several thousand-acre feet of water rights to surface water from the Big Sandy River.  The project may also purchase water from the Cyprus Bagdad water pipeline. The chief geological feature of this area is the Big Sandy River and associated wash.  The highway 93 roadbed follows along the river.  The area includes rolling hills and is principally desert terrain, with some limited agricultural and ranching interests.  Wickieup is a very small town with an estimated population of 200. Project Schedule Gas Turbine(s) ordered Westinghouse-Seimens  May 2000 Submit Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)  August 2000 Arrange financing     December 2000 EIS approval      March 2001 Construction begins     April 2001 Testing begins      July 2002 Commercial Operation     November 2002 There are two lead agencies for purposes of the project's EIS- the Bureau of Land Management (BLM Kingman office) and the Western Area Power Administration (WAPA).  There is only one endangered/threatened species known to be present in the area. Lateral Pipeline Alignment The most critical path item is the alignment of the lateral pipeline.  The alignment (lateral pipeline route) must be included in the EIS to be filed next month.  Caithness has spoken preliminarily with the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) and the agency is amenable to granting an easement for the pipeline.  The problem appears to be in the limited amount of right of way available.  Measured from the shoulder to the fenceline, there is only a 70 ft. right of way available for construction.  Typically, pipelines require a 100 ft. temporary construction easement and 50 ft. of permanent right of way.  Preliminary discussions indicate another problem with this alignment may be the roadway's routing within the wash of the riverbed. If the highway 93 corridor is unsuitable for the pipeline, the second alternative appears to be running the pipeline down the adjacent N/S section line.  The problem with this approach is that as the line nears the site, the routing would have to contend with the river bed and wash areas, possibly necessitating deep burial and anchoring.  The other route would involve following along the WAPA electric transmission corridor.  The only issue there, aside from whether WAPA would permit the pipeline encroachment, is whether there are safety and/or corrosion concerns associated with a high pressure gas line located under a high voltage transmission system. Other Preliminary Project Issues There are other fundamental issues to address.  The original concept was to interconnect the proposed Transwestern lateral with El Paso's northern mainline and the yet-to-be-constructed Questar Southern Trails Pipeline, both of which lay adjacent to Transwestern's mainline.  Transwestern's original estimate to construct a 16"" lateral pipeline and meter station ($20.3MM) was based on the following specifications: 120 MMcf/d 450 psig delivery pressure, 900 psig inlet pressure The meeting resulted in a revised set of specifications that now include a higher 550 psig minimum delivery pressure (new technology Westinghouse turbines).  In addition, our understanding is that EPNG's system operates at a pressure 100-150 psig lower than Transwestern's.  In order to accommodate EPNG deliveries and to account for the new higher minimum pressure, the design will likely change to a 20"" pipeline. Next Steps (responsible party/department) Task      Date Due Party/Dept. Pipeline Alignment 1. Estimate to plot lateral pipeline route.     8/4  Matthews/Chanley 2. Engineering services agreement    8/4  Scott/Fawcett 3. Final alignment sheets.    8/25  Matthews/Chanley Misc. Items 1.   Confidentiality Agreement   7/24  Scott/Fawcett 2. Data items to Caithness -  Form 567     7/26  Matthews -  Gallup FERC filing (flow diagram)  7/26  Scott -  Sta. 1 and Needles flow/pressure data  7/28  Matthews -  Outage reports/maintenance schedules 7/28  Matthews Engineering/Design 1.   Original estimate (16"" line) to Caithness  7/24  Matthews 2.  Revised specifications to Transwestern  7/28  Caithness (T.P.) 3.   Revised estimate (20"" line) to Caithness    8/4  Matthews/Chanley Other Issues Several key issues need to be addressed concurrently with the pipeline alignment and engineering activities: Task      Date Due Party/Dept. Deal Structuring 1. Financing/cost amortization     9/8  Fawcett/Hayslett /Centilli/Goodrow 2. Research interconnect policy (EPNG)    8/4  Scott/Regulatory 3. Research 7(c) application requirements  8/11  Scott/Regulatory 4. Rates      9/22  Scott/Regulatory /Centilli 5. Research open season requirements  8/18  Scott/Regulatory The above list is certainly not meant to be all-inclusive and a kick-off meeting to discuss the project schedule will be put together shortly.  In the meantime, if you have any questions regarding this project, please let me know.  Also, please feel free to forward this memo to anyone I've inadvertently left off the distribution.  Thanks. 
Please get this to Tino.  I don't know what went wrong but the email didn't go throught.  Thanks. DF 
Tino, attached is a spreadsheet with the info I think you need.  I got the publication wrong--its ""Megawatt Daily"" that posts daily prices.  Hope this is helpful.  DF Drew, Attached is an excel file which contains pricing for the following delivery points January 1, 1999 through April 30, 2000: Four Corners Palo Verde Mead Nevada Southwest Power Pool Let me know if you want any additional information.  We can get April 30, 2000 to present information.  I just have to call RDI--they put it out by quarter so at the end of July we will get the next disk.  They'll send me the data if we need it. Lorna 
Come out with a whole bunch of cool new machines and your stock gets whacked.  What a weird deal that is.  Anyway, when do you think the new IMacs will be out in stores?  I still havent' got around to buying Sandra her IMac and now she thinks she wants the IMac notebook so its a good thing I didn't do this last month.  Do you concur that the new ones are worth the wait or should we pick up an old one on mega sale once stores start clearing the old 
No wonder you are oblivious to our meager organizational changes up in Omaha!  You are out doing zillion dollar deals for EBS!!! Congratulations--sounds like a very cool deal!  Lets get together soon down in Houston and debrief--that is if rock star Frank can take time away from the 50th floor crowd to hang with mere mortals!  DF 
Tino, attached is a spreadsheet with the info I think you need.  I got the publication wrong--its ""Megawatt Daily"" that posts daily prices.  Hope this is helpful.  DF Drew, Attached is an excel file which contains pricing for the following delivery points January 1, 1999 through April 30, 2000: Four Corners Palo Verde Mead Nevada Southwest Power Pool Let me know if you want any additional information.  We can get April 30, 2000 to present information.  I just have to call RDI--they put it out by quarter so at the end of July we will get the next disk.  They'll send me the data if we need it. Lorna 
Thanks for the outstanding and fast service!  DF ET & S Business Intelligence Department 
A $14 IT deal?  The $14 deal was a sale of operational gas, right?  DF Jan Moore 12/01/2000 02:43 PM 
We are up this week due to a couple of reasons.  The Index Price increased to $5.37 and T.K. negotiated an IT deal for 11/30 for 10,000 @ $14.00. Please call if you have any questions (53858). 
You guys should enjoy this--especially the last one.   Reed, you never called back you wimpy Pantani butt pirate.  I've got a big case settling and am more likely going to have a shot at blasting out for a couple days of fishing. Let me know whether fishing is worth a shit out there.  DF 
> These are things people actually said in  court, word for word, taken > down and now published by court reporters  who had the torment of > staying calm while these exchanges were actually  taking place: > >  -------------------------------------------------------- > > Q:  What is your date of birth? > A: July fifteenth. > Q: What  year? > A: Every year. > >  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ > > Q: What  gear were you in at the moment of the impact? > A: Gucci sweats and  Reeboks. > >  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ > > Q: This  myasthenia gravis, does it affect your memory at all? > A: Yes. > Q:  And in what ways does it affect your memory? > A: I forget. > Q: You  forget. Can you give us an example of something that you've >  forgotten? > >  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ > > Q: How  old is your son, the one living with you? > A: Thirty-eight or  thirty-five, I can't remember which. > Q: How long has he lived with  you? > A: Forty-five years. > >  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ > > Q: What  was the first thing your husband said to you when he woke > that  morning? 
Thanks for the update--Other than the Gallagher Boland $$$ I can't think of anything that we might be squirreling away and capitalizing.  (Grynberg $$ go to a work order also, but are expensed, right?).  Also, I absolutely trust you, but in the Ronald Reagan sense:  ""Trust, but verify.""  Adios.  DF 07/18/2000 12:14 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 07/18/2000 12:14 PM 07/18/2000 12:14 PM 
DREW - SINCE I DID NOT KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON I SPOKE WITH ELAINE. WE HAVE CAPITAL CHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH SPECIFIC PROJECTS - SUCH AS AN EXPANSION PROJECT.  I DON'T BELIEVE YOU HAVE ANY OF THOSE AND I HAVE PROVIDED MS. PATEL A LIST OF ET&S PROJECTS THAT FIT IN THIS CATEGORY (I ONLY HAD A COUPLE AS WELL). THERE COULD BE OTHER CHARGES WHICH ARE ALLOCATED TO A GENERAL OVERHEAD AND CAPITALIZED.  THE ONLY MATTER THAT MIGHT FALL INTO THIS CATEGORY WOULD BE THE GALLAGHER/BOLAND (OUTSIDE COUNSEL) COSTS.  WE HAVE THESE GOING TO A WORK ORDER FOR THE YEAR 2000 (A TOTAL AMOUNT OF ABOUT $425,000 FOR NORTHERN).  I BELIEVE WE WERE PLANNING TO ESTIMATE THE COSTS AS THE SAME FOR 2001 AND TREAT THEM THE SAME (ASSUMING ELAINE AND OTHERS GIVE US THE GO AHEAD). ELAINE - ANYTHING TO ADD?  ALSO, I UNDERSTAND YOU ARE COLLECTING THESE CHARGES FROM ALL GROUPS AND WILL GET BACK TO US??  (AND YOU WILL PUT ME ON YOUR DISTRIBUTION LIST SINCE I DON'T TRUST DREW AND HE'S TOO SMART TO TRUST ME.) THX. 
Any need to do anything?  DF 
Just a reminder for those of you that have not sent me your Overhead Analysis.  Please send it as soon as possible.  A big thanks to those of you who have already sent me your information. Please call me at x3-5521 if you have questions. Thanks!  Elaine Bill Cordes 06/27/2000 01:45 PM Sent by: Virginia O'Neill 
Leslie Lawner called and asked if TW could help with the funding of this organization.  As you will recall, the ""NM First"" group has taken positions on right of way issues that are consistent with TW/Enron's view on Indian right of way issues.  Leslie asked if we could kick in $1000.  I leave this to you guys to weigh in on--If you think it's worthwhile, let me know and one of us can get back to Leslie.  I'm happy to help out with the funding if you think it would be useful.  DF 
I'd prefer that we give them a high level bullet point type summary rather than a draft of the filing itself.  DF 
-FYI--this is the kind of significant organizational change that in the old days would have spurred us to dash over to Happy Hollow and drink a bunch of beer and pretend to play golf.  Had you guys heard anything about this??? I'd appreciate your thoughts.  DF 
FYI.  I met Dan yesterday for the first time--seem like a very good guy.  DF 
FYI.  Interesting, and no significant deviations from what we discussed.  Dan was up here yesterday with Stan.  He seems like a good guy and is pretty gung ho about getting on board.  Lets keep in touch.  DF 
pls print.  thanks df 
gents - the figures are looking better.   a few more rounds and we'll be a profit center.... Eric and I will put something together on a company by company basis for our discussions.... 
Attached is the latest version of the 2001 Budget. 07/17/2000 03:06 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 07/17/2000 03:06 PM 07/17/2000 03:06 PM 
James - if you could run the consolidated adn return to eric and myself as we discussed. I'm not 100% comfortable with CE and i will continue to work on it....thx!! 
Thanks Susan--I agree with your analysis of the tying issue.  It ain't tying if we aren't restricting access to the service--we are just offering selective discounts.  Christine--I'm OK with it.  Thanks. DF 
pls let me know if this looks ok to you.  thanks df 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE COMPANY INTERACTIVE OPEN SEASON APPROVAL REQUEST Please review the attached file for the announcement of Transwestern's Interactive Open Season (IOS) to be held Friday, July 21, 2000.  The following summarizes the bidding rules and capacity definition for the two bid packages of East of Thoreau (EOT) to California capacity: Package 1: Volume: 20,000 Dth/d Term:  3 months (August - October, 2000) Path:  East of Thoreau to California.  Maximum available delivery capacity of 12,000 Dth/d at Needles, Ca.  Remaining may be chosen between PG&E and Mojave. Package 2: Volume: 49,000 Dth/d Term:  12 Months (November 1, 2000 - Oct. 31, 2001) Path:  East of Thoreau to California.  Maximum available delivery capacity of 35,000 Dth/d at Needles, Cal.  Remaining may be chosen between PG&E and Mojave. Bidders may bid on either a 1-part or a 2-part rate structure for the entire capacity amount posted.   No partial volume bids are accepted.  Bid packages are considered mutually exclusive.     No minimum bid rate is posted therefore Transwestern is not obligated to accept any bids if the bids are valued as unacceptable.  Transwestern shall award capacity based upon Highest Rate criteria. If any questions arise please contact Christine Stokes at x35702. Please indicated approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY. 
pls let me know if this looks ok to you.  thanks df 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE COMPANY INTERACTIVE OPEN SEASON APPROVAL REQUEST Please review the attached file for the announcement of Transwestern's Interactive Open Season (IOS) to be held Friday, July 21, 2000.  The following summarizes the bidding rules and capacity definition for the two bid packages of East of Thoreau (EOT) to California capacity: Package 1: Volume: 20,000 Dth/d Term:  3 months (August - October, 2000) Path:  East of Thoreau to California.  Maximum available delivery capacity of 12,000 Dth/d at Needles, Ca.  Remaining may be chosen between PG&E and Mojave. Package 2: Volume: 49,000 Dth/d Term:  12 Months (November 1, 2000 - Oct. 31, 2001) Path:  East of Thoreau to California.  Maximum available delivery capacity of 35,000 Dth/d at Needles, Cal.  Remaining may be chosen between PG&E and Mojave. Bidders may bid on either a 1-part or a 2-part rate structure for the entire capacity amount posted.   No partial volume bids are accepted.  Bid packages are considered mutually exclusive.     No minimum bid rate is posted therefore Transwestern is not obligated to accept any bids if the bids are valued as unacceptable.  Transwestern shall award capacity based upon Highest Rate criteria. If any questions arise please contact Christine Stokes at x35702. Please indicated approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY. 
Looks OK to me, subject to approval from MKM's group.  Should we also solicit turnback in the East of Thoreau area in addition to soliciting it from Cal. border to Thoreau?  Is it our theory that since Thor.-Cal is the constrained segment, thats the only area we need to solicit turnback on?  DF Lindy Donoho 12/01/2000 02:22 PM 
Attached is a draft posting for the 10,000/d mainline expansion.  Please let me know your comments by the end of the day Monday, December 4th. Thanks! 
can you get this to do what it is supposed to?  I hope its not a porno picture.  DF 
? [IMAGE] ? [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE][IMAGE][IMAGE][IMAGE][IMAGE][IMAGE][IMAGE] - laheader.gif - la17.jpgt - la15.jpgt - la12.jpgt - la14.jpgt - lahometext.gif - book01.gif - contact01.gif - links01.gif - meet01.gif - oils01.gif - watercolors01.gif - work01.gif 
pls put on my calendar.  thanks df 
You are invited to join Stan Horton=01,s staff meeting this Monday, July 17= , at=20 10:00 a.m.  As usual, the meeting will be held via videoconference, so you= =20 can join us in EB49C2 in Houston or in OMA717 in Omaha.  The meeting will= =20 probably last about a half-hour. See you Monday. 
I'm up for Wed. pm assuming a flight from denver to dc is available . Martha--please check and make sure there is a late flight from denver to dc--leaving after 5 pm would be best.  pls coordinate with jeff.  thanks. 
Great draft!  I had just a few comments and typos, set out in this redline. I'll be in to take a look at the tariff sheets a bit later this AM.  Thanks for the excellent work!   Martha, pls copy for Steve Stojic. 
pls grab me when I come in and make me do this.  thanks df 
Can't make it, unfortunately.  The agenda sounds great--I believe you have seen the latest draft of the proposed options filing for TW, so I have nothing else to add on that.  Thanks. DF Shelley Corman 07/13/2000 03:55 PM 
Dan Larcamp, Director of the FERC Office of Markets, Tariffs and Rates will be visiting Enron on July 18.   I am planning for him to have lunch with a group of staff from the GPG at 11:30 (catered lunch in 50M).  Please RSVP at your earliest convenience whether you can participate in this lunch meeting and/or the topics that you would like to see us discuss. The lunch discussion will be informal, but I think we should have two or three themes that we'd like to steer discussions towards.  Here are some tentative ideas. How to Bring New Ideas to FERC.  Get Dan's suggestions on how to best work with FERC on new ideas.  Perhaps talk about capacity options as an example. What were his Impressions about the Recent Outreach Meetings.  Did he hear anything new from any trade groups.   Is there any general feedback he'd like to give to pipelines as a group? Get Dan to Talk about Expectations for the fall Order 637 Technical Conferences.  The first conference has been scheduled for Sept. 19.  What are the top issues on Staff's mind. What Does he expect to see in the upcoming RTO filings.  Are there Staff resources concerns that we should be aware of and/or any suggestions for gas filings during this time period? FYI - Here is an outline of what I tentatively has lined up for Dan's visit. 10:30-11:30 Trading Floor Visit  Christi Nicolay/Kevin Presto/Steve Kean 11:30-1  Lunch (50M)   GPG Staff 1-1:30  Gas Control Tour  Mike Bryant 
pls print for me.  thanks df 
Thanks--excellent news.  DF 
Sorry, I neglected to forward this to you earlier.   You've gotta give these guys credit for being tenacious!  I'll keep you posted on any meaningful developments after their meeting with DOE on the 25th.  Thanks for your patience.  DF 
Just got an update on the project that won't go away.  Dennis has a meeting lined up with DOE decisionmakers on the 25th.  He is going to pitch the project as an approximately 100 mw power plant, to be owned by (read ""financed by"") DOE, with the gas pipeline owned by Dennis and\or third parties (read ""Enron""?).  Dennis has run economics that show the DOE will get a more than 10% cost savings on the project compared to current PNM rates, even assuming a fairly high gas transport cost because of the smaller gas load.  How did he do it?  Very easy:  they ran the power plant economics using about a $2.00 gas cost instead of current, real world prices.   Dennis' argument is going to be:  ""I'll take the risk on building the pipeline and 
Thinking about bailing out of the big O for a couple of days w/o rugrats or Sandra. Taking Kari out of her native biome is more hassle than its worth these days.  Might just blow up for a long weekend and do some fishing and beer drinking.  Send me the name of that book on flyfishing in the Hills--I 
pls print.  df 
Excellent!  This a great idea and perfect timing given the kind of things we have lately been getting more and more involved in.  I'll strongly encourage our guys to attend.  DF Shelley Corman 07/11/2000 06:09 PM 
Please plan to attend an in-house training session on an ""Introduction to the Electric Industry.""   Jim Crist, a lecturer with IGT  is preparing a day-long seminar customized to our interests and issues. Here is my ""top 4 list"" on why GPG staff need to increase our understanding of the electric industry. First and foremost, gas-fired electric generation is the growth market for gas pipelines.  We need to get a sense of why and where generation is being built and who the likely customers are.  This involves understanding the different between utility generation and merchant plants, the dynamics of siting, understanding a little bit about how utilities plan and economically justify generation investments. Second, we need to understand electric utilities as customers.  Who is the customer these days -- the generator?  Who should we be dealing with within the utility organization.  What types of load patterns should we expect various types of electric players?  What types of services do they need?  We also need to get a sense of how the timing of their processes compare/contrast to our processes on the gas side. Third, we need to understand the regulatory climate on the electric side and the implications for electric generation demand growth.  We need to understand the state/federal jurisdictional issues.  We need to learn about the debates over ATC, TLR, locational marginal pricing, price caps, and control areas.  We need to understand how these issues fit into Enron's position in support of restructuring the electric industry, unbundling transmission, removing native load exceptions, and avoiding prices caps and we need to understand how these debates affect GPG. Fourth, we need to understand electric tariffs and practices, services and OASIS because the FERC has started to insist on common rules between gas and electric.  The recent electric interconnection policy has now been applied on the gas side.  FERC is talking about imposing the RTO principles on pipelines. And, we hear a lot of comparisons between OASIS and pipeline EBBs.  We want to learn how to take advantage of electric best practices where it makes sense and on the flip side, know how to argue against the imposition of electric rules on our pipelines where there are legitimate differences between gas and electric. I've shared this list of interests with Jim Crist as he prepares a customized seminar for us.  Please feel free to email me with any other areas of interest for the course.   I will keep you posted on the specific location as things progress.  In the meantime, please make sure to save the date! Please pass this notice along to others in your organization that may be interested. 
Bankruptcy 
pls print thanks df 
Tino,  this was easier than I thought!  Just eyeballing the numbers, it looks like $2.00 may even be on the high side on a 24 month or 18 month average basis.   I wasn't sure which email to use so I used both.  Let me know how your meeting goes.  DF 
Drew, I pulled TW San Juan (Blanco) prices off the RDI database for January 1, 1998 through June 8, 2000 (the most current in the database).  If you need to have the remainder of June and the first part of July input, let me know.  The file is attached and is saved in Excel so you can edit as needed. Lorna 
Just got an update on the project that won't go away.  Dennis has a meeting lined up with DOE decisionmakers on the 25th.  He is going to pitch the project as an approximately 100 mw power plant, to be owned by (read ""financed by"") DOE, with the gas pipeline owned by Dennis and\or third parties (read ""Enron""?).  Dennis has run economics that show the DOE will get a more than 10% cost savings on the project compared to current PNM rates, even assuming a fairly high gas transport cost because of the smaller gas load.  How did he do it?  Very easy:  they ran the power plant economics using about a $2.00 gas cost instead of current, real world prices.   Dennis' argument is going to be:  ""I'll take the risk on building the pipeline and 
Cabo's--very hip if you like meat markets (which I do, of course).  I suspect that fish tacos are a  very popular dish in London--at least among the London surfer crowd.  You can reach me on the cell phone @402-630-8461--I'll leave it on all day.  So what brings both of you down to Houston?  Anything going on that I ought to know about?  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 07/10/2000 12:11 PM 
Dinner at Cabo (grilled fish tacos), downtown, hits the spot.  We should be reachable at the Four Seasons, downtown, so leave us a message as to where to reach you.  mcs Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Outstanding!  I'm in Houston on Thursday, flying to the big O on the 8:30 pm flight.  I'd love to get together for dinner around 5:00 or so if that works out for you guys.  Any chance of getting together with both of you?  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 07/10/2000 04:24 AM 
Flying in to Houston with Mary on Thursday afternoon, and back to London on Saturday p.m.  Any chance of seeing you, e.g., an early dinner on Thursday? mcs 
Thanks Leslie--I appreciate your efforts and being kept up to speed.  I'm forwarding this to some folks who are much closer to the Navajo ROW issues than I am.  Lou and Steve, please let Leslie and/or me know what direction TW prefers as well as any pitfalls to be wary of.   DF Leslie Lawner@EES 07/10/2000 11:11 AM 
Drew, as you may remember, before Tim Aren abandoned service, he had signed TW up as a sponsor the the New Mexico First Townhall on energy issues.  I attended as the Enron person.  The Townhall is now in its implementation phase and I want to bring you up to date on what is involved.  A number of issues were put in our report, and I will get you a final copy this week (I think one will be available shortly).  There is an implementation meeting in Alb. tomorrow.  From TW's standpoint, a few issues stand out.  First, producers and others joined in our frustation with the native American access issues (I did not raise them, but they came out loud and clear from the producers, which I thought was fine).  Accordingly, the Townhall has recommended that our Congressional delegation use their bully pulpit power to call a summit with the energy industry and the indian nations to discuss right of ways, access, taxes, development and other issues.  I would think that TW would want to be involved in this, if not  a leader in this.  Second, the townhall noted that pipeline infrastructure may need upgrading in the state.  There are other issues that affect TW not as directly, but that you should be aware of. I will continue to be on the implementation team, and I can bring your issues along and keep you up to date as well.  At some point, it may be appropriate to bring in TW or ETS folks, as the action items move forward.  Tom Rutherford is another resource that Tim used and that we can consider as things develop.  Let me know if you need anything, have any thoughts or want to discuss.  I am mindful of the marketing affiliate rules and I don't want to get in trouble with them, but I am an employee of Enron Corp. so I do feel that so far we are in the clear. 
I need to be in DC on Thursday next week, so any time in Denver that allows me to get to DC is ok.  DF Jeffery Fawcett 07/10/2000 11:58 AM 
I got a call at 10:30 a.m. from George Briden indicating that his client's plans were changed over the weekend and they will not be available to come to Houston for tomorrow's meeting.  They will be in their Denver offices all next week and suggested that we might meet up with them there.  Drew has indicated his willingness to meet with them in Denver next week. Given this change in events, I'd suggest that we pack-up a small contingent to go to Denver and meet with them.  I'm thinking Terry or Ron, plus Steve Harris (if available) and myself.  I don't have any dates/times yet.  I'll call George and get his thoughts.  Will you EMail me back and let me know what days/times will work for you next week?  Thanks. 
See attached note.  I'm thinking that for a preliminary discussion with this [potential] customer, we should high grade the meeting as well as limit the number of meeting participants to no more than 5-6 from our side.  Bear in mind that Drew has a relationship with George Briden already and he will be here in Houston for this meeting.  In addition to Drew, I'd like to see representatives from TW Commercial, marketing services, and facility planning/engineering involved.  If you feel I've missed a function here that should be included, please advise.  Let me know your availability and/or the availability of your designee. Audrey, will you secure a conference room for us on that date/time:  1:30 - 3:30 p.m, Tues. July 11th.   Plan on about 8 people.  Can we get a coffee/soft drink/snack set-up also?  Thanks. 
George, Thanks.  Let's plan on about 1:30 p.m. CDT on July 11th here in Houston at Transwestern's office in the Enron Building at 1400 Smith Street.  Just check in at the security desk, ask for me and they'll direct you to the elevators leading to our (41st) floor.  I don't think we'll need the whole afternoon, particularly at this stage, but I'll plan on at least a couple of hours. I'll ask a couple of reps from our engineering/operations group to join us and be prepared to answer questions about TW, its operation, as well as the estimate and underlying engineering of the lateral pipeline.  I'll forward this to Drew so that he can make his arrangements to join us also. I look forward to meeting you and your client in person.  Call me if you have any questions. ""George Briden"" <gbriden.snakehill@worldnet.att.net> on 06/28/2000 11:59:31 AM 
pls print up.  thanks df 
Outstanding!  I'm in Houston on Thursday, flying to the big O on the 8:30 pm flight.  I'd love to get together for dinner around 5:00 or so if that works out for you guys.  Any chance of getting together with both of you?  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 07/10/2000 04:24 AM 
Flying in to Houston with Mary on Thursday afternoon, and back to London on Saturday p.m.  Any chance of seeing you, e.g., an early dinner on Thursday? mcs 
Here's a thought that didn't occur to me when I marked up the mock trial script.  Should we have the consultants prominantly feature ""IPEC Busters""???  Unless we are pretty sure the judge will keep it out on relevance grounds, it might be useful to at least get some juror reactions to it.  With or without the specific IPEC Busters stuff, we probably ought to assume that Jad's theme will be that Northern's whole philosophy was to breach contracts without flinching if it served our commercial interests. The vitriol from P&P and the other producers plays into that theme.  Maybe we ought to spice that part of the script up a bit also just so we can see how 
Great--we ought to be able to about close this effort out at this next meeting I hope.  DF 
Pls get me a printout of this Mon. AM.  I couldn't open it.  Thanks. DF 
I'm OK with the new version.  Thanks. DF 
pls print out.  thanks. df 
Great--please send me the current draft on Thur. AM for me to take a look at.  Gracias!  DF 07/01/2000 05:30 PM Tony Pryor Tony Pryor Tony Pryor 07/01/2000 05:30 PM 07/01/2000 05:30 PM 
Drew, I just sent the revised draft to Lou for his comments. Hope you're better................Tony Drew Fossum 07/01/2000 04:02 PM 
Thanks Tony--we'll discuss on Wed or Thur.  DF 06/30/2000 05:28 PM Tony Pryor Tony Pryor Tony Pryor 06/30/2000 05:28 PM 06/30/2000 05:28 PM 
Drew, I am incorporating the comments of Maria, Susan and Jeff into the draft of the discussion of alternatives. I'm about half-way done, but ran out of time. I'll finish this weekend and provide to Lou for his comments before forwarding to you. 
I guess this is good news unless they introduce the ""next steps"" section at the meeting with a slide that is titled ""Step One:  Shutting Your Sorry-Ass Pipeline Down ONce and For All"" .   Seriously, the agenda doesn't seem to have any flavor of escalation, which is great given the  lack of attractive alternatives for our team right now.  Talk to you about this tomorrow.  DF 07/05/2000 04:10 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 07/05/2000 04:10 PM 07/05/2000 04:10 PM 
Guys - just fyi.   Ignore the notes and see the agenda.  nothing surp[rising so far.. 
> > Rod we didn't have any luck finding a meeting room or motel rooms in > Flagstaff. It's seems like everyone in the state is meeting there next > week. We'll need to meet at our Flagstaff Compressor Station which is > about > 18 miles West of Flagstaff on 1-40. The road to our station is named > Transwestern leading off the interstate. After exiting turn left and > follow the access road  which is paved 6 miles around to the station. Let > me know if you fly in that morning and we'll pick you up or what ever will > work for you. I'll probably stay in Winslow which is about 50 miles East > of > Flagstaff, but will be in Flagstaff early on the 13th. > > The start time for the meeting might change because of this, but I'll wait > to hear from you and we'll work something out.. > > Thanks Rich 
> > Rod > Thanks and I look forward to hearing from you. I'll send you some things > we > want to talk about. I'm sure they are similar to yours. > Have a good week. > Rich > > > > ""Boschee, Rodney"" <RAB9@pge.com> on 06/26/2000 05:53:36 PM > 
> > > Rich, > Thanks for the quick turn-around.  8:00 am start sounds good.  I will talk > with Dave (our attorney) regard he and Lou making the trip. > I will put together agenda items and send off to you early next week.  I > will also advise you of our plans. > Thanks, > > rod > > > ---------- 
> > > > > > Rod good to hear from you. TW should have about the same number of > people > > attending. Like you we will invite our attorney's and  see what they > say. > > If 08:00 for a start time will work for you we'll plan on it. I'll need > > your help on items to be discussed. If you would like for me to get > > reservations for you let me know. We'll plan to have the meeting at > Little > > America, which is a good palace to stay also. > > > > I plan to be in Flagstaff sometime the 12th. I'll be driving from > Durango, > > Colo. so I'm not sure of the time. I'll be on vacation the rest of this > > week but will have my computer and  will be checking phone mail. Thanks > > and > > I'm looking forward to the meeting. > > > > Rich > > > > > > > > > > ""Boschee, Rodney"" <RAB9@pge.com> on 06/26/2000 03:12:50 PM > > 
> > > > > > I understand you will be coordinating the meeting we scheduled for July > 13 > > in Flagstaff.  I anticipate PG&E will have about 7 individuals > attending, > > depending if we invite our attorneys. > > > > I would suggest we get started early in the morning of the 13.  We will > be > > arriving the night before so an early start will allow us greater > > flexibility on getting home that afternoon.  I am in the process of > > reviewing our alternatives for getting in and out of Flagstaff. > > > > Let me know what your tentative plans our. > > > > Thanks, > > > > Rod Boschee > > > > > > > > > > > > > > - twpcb41.doc 
Thanks Tony--we'll discuss on Wed or Thur.  DF 06/30/2000 05:28 PM Tony Pryor Tony Pryor Tony Pryor 06/30/2000 05:28 PM 06/30/2000 05:28 PM 
Drew, I am incorporating the comments of Maria, Susan and Jeff into the draft of the discussion of alternatives. I'm about half-way done, but ran out of time. I'll finish this weekend and provide to Lou for his comments before forwarding to you. 
pls print.  thanks df 
pls print.  thanks df 
These guys don't give up.  I'll forward any information Tino gives me on their latest DOE strategy.  Rockey--do you have any interest in following up on Tino's Wichita project??  I don't know how far it is from any of our lines, but it may be worth a chat.  DF 
Sorry you are feedling bad. Hope reading email doesn't hurt. I'll try and be brief. 1. We have an opportunity to acquire a? 35MW? cogeneration facility in Kansas that is from the early 1980's and rarely used. We may want to talk about a? joint project. Can I borrow some expertise via a phone call fom you to your electric gurus to let me know what the spot market into KC and Wichita looks like. 2. I met with DML and we intend to propose a deal that has us charging only for the generation and for DOE to assumme the risk and or reward of the cost of gas.Before you have any conversations with Dennis or your folks give me a call so we can flesh this out. We have DOE meetings scheduled for 7/24-25th so it is a busy month. Our consultant's are reviewing the DOE data we? received. I''l let you? know what we learn.They may have a bigger steam load than I would have guessed. 
Thanks for the update!  As for the margarita idea, I'm all over it!  Not just for breakfast anymore!!  DF Kathy Ringblom 06/30/2000 09:43 AM 
We won our motion yesterday to depose Conoco on the Rensvold documents questions so it sounds like they will also depose Steve Gilbert about the Imperial plant.  We're deposing the Enerfin rep today - hopefully we'll get him to tie the terminated contracts to the wells that were under those contracts (Conoco is now saying, ""Well, how were they supposed to know what wells were tied to what contracts"" - duh) and possibly when Conoco took over the accounting for the plant - we still haven't been able to locate an invoice earlier than Jan. 1990.  Anyway, HOPE YOU FEEL BETTER SOON!!!!!  Try a frozen margarita for a sore throat.  Works every time. 
I had a problem approving one from home a couple weeks ago, but I think it works OK now.  May have been a bad phone line.  Thanks.  DF 
fyi--please keep me from getting disbarred.  Df 
This is an official Bar announcement for the purpose of disseminating important Bar news. ------------------------------------------------- Attention Bar Members: The Annual Registration and Dues Statement for the 2000--2001 dues year were recently mailed. In accordance with the Rules and By-laws, the due and payable date is July 1, 2000.  The statements also reflect a ""billing"" date of May 7, 2000. Due to a computer problem with our new software, the billing extract was produced on May 7, 2000 but was unable to completely print until early June. We apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused in our members trying to comply with the due date. Here are the important dates regarding dues payments for this year:. July 1   -  due and payable August 1  - reminder notice to all unpaid members September 1 - Final notice mailed by certified mail to all unpaid members with a $30.00 late charge added October 31, 2000 - Automatic suspension occurs unless dues and late charges are post-marked by this date ------------------------------------------------ If you want more information please email the Bar at IT@dcbar.org You can also link to the Bars Web site: http://www.dcbar.org 
I did.  Just got back.  Doctor says I'm just a whiner and I should go back to work.  DF 
Thanks Bob.  I'm out sick today (my wife made me stay home until I quit griping about a sore throat I can't seem to shake), but I forwarded your voicemail on item 3 to Kent yesterday.  I'll forward this to him as a reminder.  ON the other two items, I'll send you separate emails on each.  DF 
Britt- great memo.  I'm sure you guys are in the course of discussing these very issues, but here's my two cents worth. 1.  Once we decide on an optimal forum, the key step before filing a lawsuit is the assessment of our probability of success--for different reasons than is usually the case.  We need to weigh the chances of a favorable judgment against El Paso against the probability and extent of collateral damage to our defense (not just TW but all of GPG) in Quinque, et al. 2.  I like our case a lot based on what I've seen so far--if I've got it right, our claim is that El Paso breached the 1990 measurement agreement by not calibrating the meters as required and therefore by allowing the error to arise and remain uncorrected for so long.  Under the NM statute, we may get 6 years worth of recovery ( or more, I guess, if they did something to toll the SOL).  Under the Texas SOL, maybe less.  Do we have a good argument that the 1% standard in the measurement agreement and the 2% standard in El Paso's tariff do not absolve them of conversion or breach liability?  Seems to me that El Paso will argue that the FERC tariff preempts our contract rights--but I think the law is on our side there. 3.  The tricky issue then becomes whether our prosecution of the claim against El Paso plays into the hands of our adversaries on the Quinque mess. If so, how do we quantify that risk to allow a rational balancing of the pros and cons.  I'm glad smart guys like you two will have to do that thinking. As usual, I'll try to stay on the sidelines and nod intelligently when you make a recommendation.  DF 
pls print.  thanks df 
Given the overwhelming response so far, I think a meeting may be necessary to get this project moving.  Thanks. DF 
Good point on the timetable.  If we can get to the letter of intent stage Caithness soon after this meeting Jeff is setting up--by mid July maybe--what would a realistic timetable be?  It looks from the map like the ROW would be 
Jeff, I realize you plan to bring the Certificates group in at a later date. But if they want gas service by the second quarter of 2001, we are most likely in trouble already.  Unless there has been ROW work and environmental surveys completed.  From the time we get approval to move ahead on the project, the certificate process will take approximately one year. Please call, if you would like to discuss further. Keith 
Here's the memo I mentioned.  Obviously, we have already used up all the good ideas and are down to the fall back plans.  DF 
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL: ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE Here's an idea:  PG&E's world has changed a bit since they executed the '97 interconnect agreement.  Back then, I think the majority of Line 300 capacity was held by PG&E for the benefit of the core customers.  Some of the capacity was held by contract transport customers, but not that much.  (maybe 100,000-200,000 dth out of 1.14 bcf/d??)   Now, I understand that PG&E still retains some line 300 capacity for the core, but a lot more of it is allocated out to contract transport customers.  Do you guys know how much was in each of those buckets then and now?  My theory is as follows: 1.  As to the capacity that it retains in its own name for the benefit of its core customers, PG&E has absolute discretion as to how to use the capacity. They can nominate and schedule volumes at TW/Topock some days and nom. and schedule zero on others.  They can be totally arbitrary and not schedule anything for extended periods even though they are paying demand charges on TW and may incur costs on their gas purchase contracts in the San Juan or elsewhere (eventually this would get the CPUC's attention, I guess).  Even if there were no interconnect agreement or operating agreement with TW on the pcb issue, there is just not much we can do to control how PG&E dispatches gas supply. 2.  PG&E's transport contracts with third parties are a different story. Those parties, not PG&E,  decide how much to nom. every day.  If PG&E is going to refuse to schedule a valid nom. from a transport customer, PG&E has to declare force majeure on its system or declare a capacity constraint-related curtailment.  PG&E has some discretion as a prudent operatory of its system, but not nearly as much discretion as it does as to its own portfolio. 3.  If 1 and 2 are correct, then the question arises:  Does PG&E have to declare force  majeure on its own system in order to shut us down at Topock? If the amount of capacity they have in bucket no. 1 above exceeds 300 million/d, they may be able to shut us down and continue to honor all of their transport contracts.  But what if PG&E's transport customers continue to nominate TW/Topock even though PG&E is making alternative receipt point capacity available for them at El Paso Topock or somewhere else?  If TW stands by ready to confirm those customers' noms, then I think we can force PG&E to declare force majeure on its own system. 4.  I'm not sure no. 3 above makes any difference for us.  At minimum, it focuses the attention on PG&E and not us.  Remember Erin Brockovich?  They will hate that.  I'm sure their spin doctors will point the finger at us, but once they declare force majeure, the PR damage is done.  Also, and more importantly, the standards applying to PG&E's declaration of force majeure are much more stringent than the standards under the operating agreement. We will probably have a much stronger position in litigation if the issue is ""did PG&E have adequate basis for declaring force majeure"" than if the issue 
Excellent!  I hope Briden's project attracts fewer vultures than Dennis Langley's.  I need to go to Midland on the afternoon of the 12th, so could meet in Houston conveniently on the morning of the 12th or anytime 10 am or later on the 11th.  I could meet on the 10 th after 10, but less conveniently.  Just let Martha know what the plan is and she'll deploy me. Also,  when you say they want TW to ""build, own and operate the plant"" you mean the gas pipeline facilities, not the power plant, right?  Must be because $20 mil. would be a pretty cheap power plant.  Thats a pretty cheap pipeline also for the length--about 40 miles, right?  DF Jeffery Fawcett 06/27/2000 04:17 PM 
The project's consultant, George Briden, of Snake Hill Energy, called me today to say that Caithness Corp. has decided to move forward with plans for the Big Sandy, LLC. Project.  To refresh your memory, the project is a proposed IPP to be located about 40 miles south of TW's pipeline along Highway 93, about 2 miles outside of Wickieup, Arizona.  I've attached a simple bitmap below (click on it and hit ""view"") indicating the location of the project relative to Transwestern's facilities.  Ultimately, the project would be built for approx. 1,000 MW of generation in two phases.  Phase 1 will burn approx. 80,000 Dth/d, and phase 2 will burn an additional 120,000 Dth/d.  Initial indications are for the project to be in service in early 2002, with the lateral pipeline and gas service required as early as Q2, 2001. Caithness Corp., based in New York, is a privately held company with diverse interests including geothermal (renewable) electric generation facilities (Coso Plant) in California.  George reported that Caithness would like for Transwestern to build, own and operate the plant with facility costs (current estimate, $20.3MM) to be amortized vis-a-vis a throughput/rate commitment. Caithness would also like the project to be interconnected to El Paso's system and the Questar Southern Trails Pipeline if that project should ever be completed. Obviously, we'll have to wade throught the legal/regulatory issues surrounding this deal structure, as well as the requisite credit assurances. With respect to the former, I think if we view this pipeline ownership/operation structure more as a financing mechanism with associated operating agreements, then we're probably OK.  With respect to the later, George assured me that Caithness can/will set-up a funding mechanism that would give Transwestern sufficient assurance of payback. George would like to bring down a couple of representatives from Caithness to meet with Transwestern sometime the week of July 10.  He suggested either Omaha or Houston for the meeting, inasmuch as he'd like Drew Fossum to be present. Drew, I'm thinking it might be easier/better to have the meeting here in Houston given our immediate access to maps and engineering data regarding the lateral pipeline.  If you concur, what day(s) do you have open that week and is there an opportunity for you to hop Bill's plane for either one or both legs of the trip down here?  I'll ask Ron Matthews and maybe one or two others to join us so we can cover a fairly broad base of functions in one sitting. Will you get back with me as soon as you can?  Others on the distribution, if you can sit tight we'll get you more information as this meeting date/time comes together.  Thanks. 
I'd like to be at this--but I need to be back in Omaha by the evening of the 13th.  Please get me a flight and hotel (I should arrive early PM on the 12 the and leave in the pm on the 13th.   Thanks.df 
The mock trial event will be held the evening of July 12th in Midland. Joy and Nancy will call us back with the time and place so that we can make appropriate arrangements. 
Lets talk today, susan.  I need to satisfy myself that this is really one of those ""shit happens"" situations like everyone seems to believe, rather than a situation where we may have a cause of action and some $$$ owed to us by someone.  DF 
The note below was a portion of Terry Galassini's Weekly Report.  I wasn't sure if either of you have been a part of the test information. **Gallup Compressor Station & Mainline Expansion A field test was completed and initial results indicate a compressor efficiency around 80 - 82% which is within Cooper's guarantee.  A not to exceed cost of $3 Million was provided to Marketing for station modifications to facilitate an incremental mainline (West of Thoreau) firm capacity of 10 MMcf/d.    Additional work by E&C to fine tune the not to exceed estimate is targeted for completion by December 8th.  The mainline expansion potential is directly related to Gallup since the discharge pressure must be increased to 970 psig to achieve an additional 10 MMcf/d on the mainline.  The San Juan Lateral firm capacity would remain at 850 MMcf/d. 
ok.  DF 
sorry--left you out of the distrib.  df 
I need you guys to jump back into your files on the Topock issue asap.  Tony, I assume Lou briefed you on the situation.  I think the most recent liquids sample had pcbs in excess of 50 ppm.  That is well in excess of the contractual limit that I recall to be 1 ppm.  Our research a few months ago was about options to force the interconnect back open above 250 mm/d if the samples came back clean.  Now, the issue is, given dirty samples, what can we do to keep PGE from slamming the interconnect shut.  We need to complete our research/thinking immediately and have a spectrum of options ready to discuss.  Seriously, I am reviewing with Lou the option of a preemptive shut down of the interconnect, but that looks like an unwise strategy so far.  ALL ideas are worth considering.  Frank, Steve, and Maria, anything in your memory banks on TW or FERC jurisprudence that would prevent a Hinshaw from refusing to schedule transport volumes through a point even if the Hinshaw seemed to have clear contractual rights to refuse to schedule volumes based on gas quality/contamination concerns?  I don't think TW's tariff has a specific PCB spec.   DF 
A bit more detail in the bullets and a heads up call on this would have been a good idea.  DF 
Steve filled in the detail for me on the LG&E issue mentioned in the Law bullets this morning.  A valve was left open between an LG&E facility and Northern for an approximate 3 month period (I'm not sure how recent).  LG&E's gas loss data indicates that the amount of gas that inadvertently got into Northern was approx. 180,000 MMBtu, with a value of about $500,000.   Rockey and Steve have talked to LG&E and it does not appear that we have any good arguments for avoiding the liability.  The unexpected (and unmetered) deliveries from LG&E presumably reduced our lost and unaccounted for balance during the referenced 3 month period.  Accordingly, I assume the cost of replacing that gas should be accounted for in Northern's PRA and so should not affect earnings.   I'm not sure what the timetable is for resolving this matter.  DF 
Steve filled in the detail for me on the LG&E issue mentioned in the Law bullets this morning.  A valve was left open between an LG&E facility and Northern for an approximate 3 month period (I'm not sure how recent).  LG&E's gas loss data indicates that the amount of gas that inadvertently got into Northern was approx. 180,000 MMBtu, with a value of about $500,000.   Rockey and Steve have talked to LG&E and it does not appear that we have any good arguments for avoiding the liability.  The unexpected (and unmetered) deliveries from LG&E presumably reduced our lost and unaccounted for balance during the referenced 3 month period.  Accordingly, I assume the cost of replacing that gas should be accounted for in Northern's PRA and so should not affect earnings.   I'm not sure what the timetable is for resolving this 
Per our discussion, I've modified the letter to remove reference to the monthly pack agreement and made a couple of other minor changes.  I wasn't able to get ahold of Bill on Friday afternoon to discuss who will sign, so for now I've left it with signature blocks for Bill and Rod only.  I hope we are getting closer to the target here and look forward to discussing it with you further on Monday.  Thanks again for the illumination on AA's intent on the earlier draft.  DF 
I love this--even more so because it is being circulated by one of our competitors.  DF 
> > Funny! > > FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE > ----------------------- > Today Enron and Hades announced a definitive energy services agreement > said to be worth an estimated $666 Trillion.  In the deal, Enron will > provide both gas and electric commodities to Hades' facilities throughout > and under North America.  John D. Rockefeller, former CEO of energy > monopolist Standard Oil, is now head of Hades' energy management division. > Said Rockefeller, ""Obviously Hell has significant heating demands.  While > eternal flames are a great idea in concept, they > require vast and reliable fuel resources.  Enron was the only supplier > willing to make a deal with my boss, and, as a former monopolist, I just 
Hey--I thought this was pretty good!  Of course we at the evil empire are proud of being thought of as greedy overbearing SOBs!  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 06/23/2000 11:13:21 AM 
> > Funny! > > FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE > ----------------------- > Today Enron and Hades announced a definitive energy services agreement > said to be worth an estimated $666 Trillion.  In the deal, Enron will > provide both gas and electric commodities to Hades' facilities throughout > and under North America.  John D. Rockefeller, former CEO of energy > monopolist Standard Oil, is now head of Hades' energy management division. > Said Rockefeller, ""Obviously Hell has significant heating demands.  While > eternal flames are a great idea in concept, they > require vast and reliable fuel resources.  Enron was the only supplier > willing to make a deal with my boss, and, as a former monopolist, I just 
Nice to know how highly regarded we are in the industry.  DF 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Today Enron and Hades announced a definitive energy services agreement said to be worth an estimated $666 Trillion.  In the deal, Enron will provide both gas and electric commodities to Hades' facilities throughout and under North America.  John D. Rockefeller, former CEO of energy monopolist Standard Oil, is now head of Hades' energy management division.  Said Rockefeller, ""Obviously Hell has significant heating demands.  While eternal flames are a great idea in concept, they require vast and reliable fuel resources.  Enron was the only supplier willing to make a deal with my boss, and, as a former monopolist, I just like the way they do business.""  A spokesperson for Enron said the two cultures were able to work easily together during negotiations.  According to the company, ""The deal fits both companies exceptionally well.  With Hades' ability to attract and retain new customers, we see this as a fabulous growth opportunity for millennia to come.""  According to several energy industry insiders, Hades' high heating demand with very little need for summer air conditioning make it a very attractive energy portfolio addition. Hades is a multinational corporation with millions of sites worldwide and approximately 173 quintillion customers.  The entity boasts sustained high growth rates over the last two thousand years.  Enron is one of the world's leading energy and communications companies.  The company owns approximately $37 billion in energy and communications assets.  Enron ranks in the top quarter of Fortune's ""Best 100 Companies to Work For if You Can Keep A Job There and Don't Mind Working 80 Hours A Week,"" and is among the most respected corporations in America, as ranked by customers with respect-us-or-get-curtailed clauses in their energy supply contracts. ______________________________________ This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed and may contain information that is legally privileged, confidential and exempt from disclosure.  If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this message,or any attachment, is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender (or the WSPR Help Desk) immediately by telephone (212-858-1000) or by return E-mail and delete the message, along with any attachments, from your computer.  Thank you. 
fyi.  this is fine with me--pls remind me.  df 
The use of cell phones and pagers has increased dramatically in the past fe= w=20 years.  As a result the Accounts Payable department has seen a rapid increa= se=20 in the number of invoices and vendors.  With the higher volume, we have=20 reviewed our processes in order to continue our rapid payment cycle. Although we encourage vendors to address their invoices to individual=20 employees, they often mail invoices directly to Accounts Payable.  At times= =20 they fail to list the individual who uses the pager or cell phone.  In thes= e=20 cases we return the invoice to the vendor.  If the employee is designated, = we=20 try to track him/her down and forward the invoice.  The high level of=20 employee movement among jobs and locations at Enron has made this=20 increasingly challenging.  Either way, we end up doing something less=20 productive than paying invoices. To maintain satisfactory response to our vendors and to reduce time necessa= ry=20 for research, we request that employees who have pagers, cell phones, and= =20 other individually billed items such as licenses, subscriptions, etc., pay= =20 for them by personal check or charge card (if applicable=01*payment instruc= tions=20 are usually indicated on the invoice) and request reimbursement through=20 employee expense reports.=20 By submitting these charges on your expense report, you can help us reduce= =20 the amount of time spent researching and forwarding invoices, the number of= =20 checks generated by Treasury, the number of vendors in our database, and th= e=20 turnaround time for payment of invoices. =20 
I reviewed the latest draft of AA's management rep. letter and caught a few innaccuracies in the way AA described the deal.  I attach a revised draft of the letter, with a redline version to highlight for you the changes I think we need to make to keep it accurate.  First, AA only listed two of the four agreements that comprise the deal.  They apparently forgot that we had created a second SBA.  Additionally, at Transcanada's request, we put the transaction fee into a separate letter agreement this year.  You will recall that last year, Sempra wanted the transaction fee put right in the SBA. Second, AA's bullet no. 4, as originally drafted, states that Northern does not intend to enter into an option to purchase any base gas during the term of the agreement.  That statement is confusing given that Article VI.B of the Monthly Pack Agreement includes an account balance cash out mechanism that is a form of purchase option.  That cash out mechanism was in Kent's bullets describing the deal and has been in every draft of the documents that AA looked at, so I assume they are OK with the mechanism and were just inartful in drafting bullet no. 4.   My simple fix was to leave AA's language alone but to add an ""except for"" reference at the beginning of bullet no. 4. Third, AA's draft of bullet nos. 5 and 6 includes the somewhat ambiguous references to ""other agreements"" and ""additional agreements"" respectively. Since AA's list of the agreements in the intro paragraph was incomplete, these references in bullet nos. 5 and 6 were also innacurate.  Now that I have made the list of agreements in the intro paragraph complete, I've clarified the bullets by adding the ""other than those agreements referenced above"" language to both bullets.  The couple of other changes in bullet 5 simply clarify the meaning. Finally, I've modified the signature blocks per conversation with Bill to delete MKM and myself.  I am certainly willing and able to sign this letter, but MKM is not up to speed on the deal and has not reviewed the agreements. Getting her up to speed enough to sign the letter would take some time. Additionally, Bill's thought was that MKM and I are his direct reports anyway, so it doesn't serve much purpose to have the subordinates sign if the top guy has signed. Please give me a call if you have any questions or want to discuss these matters. 
pls get on my sch.  thanks df 
I'm expecting a nastygram from Harris ragging on me for dishing out credit for his idea, but haven't seen anything yet!  DF Kent Miller 11/29/2000 04:58 PM 
Drew, you're so sly!  Thanks for including us in your memo. Good job in working through this issue to come up with a solution! Kent 
Yeah--EMC is the best investment I ever made--I only wish I had put in 100000k instead of 1k.  Check this email out--one of our guys got it from someone at one of our competitors.  Enron is known as the ""evil empire"" in the energy bidness.  DF 
pls print.  thanks df 
This is horrible.  In all my years in DC I don't remember any administration official (let alone a cabinet member) getting trashed this badly except maybe Ollie North during Iran Contra.  Tino, lets add this to the list of issues we need to jointly think through.  DF Lorraine Lindberg 06/21/2000 02:24 PM 
Richardson says FBI has determined drives did not leave Los Alamos June 21, 2000 Web posted at: 3:00 PM EDT (1900 GMT) By Ian Christopher McCaleb/CNN WASHINGTON -- Two highly sensitive computer hard drives that were missing from the Los Alamos National Laboratories earlier this year never left the premises, and the FBI has uncovered no hints of espionage in the case, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson told a Senate committee Wednesday. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson The two hard drives, each smaller than a deck of playing cards, held vital nuclear weapons secrets and were stored in a secured vault at the storied New Mexico nuclear weapons laboratory. In a statement opening a lengthy and touchy hearing of Senate Armed Services Committee, Richardson said: ""Based upon the investigation by the FBI so far, there is no evidence of espionage, nor is there evidence the drives have ever 
Great--Steve, what's your phone no. ?  The operator didn't have it and I'd like to talk for a few minutes on this.  Thanks. DF Stephen Thome@ECT 06/20/2000 04:20 PM 
Here are some peaker data points: Two LM6000's in simple cycle configuration can be installed for between $43 m and $50 m, providing a total of 80 MW.  Looking at a 10 year deal, there is no way to recoup this value and ENA would not be willing to take the back 10 years on its books without an offtaker.  If EES or DOE were willing to step up for 20 years, there might be an opportunity.   Assuming a 9700 heat rate, $3 per MWh O&M, and NYMEX plus $0.39 for gas, the spread option for a peaker at 4 Corners would be worth between $33 m and $47 m.  The first number represents the intrinsic value, and the second is inclusive of an option premium.  ENA's desk (EPMI) would pay somewhere in between.  Having just inquired with the desk regarding their appetite for taking positions (short 65 MW, long 80 MW) in Albuquerque, they were luke warm.  Considering transmission constraints into Albuquerque, their bid offer spread might run the range of the extrinsic value on the 65 MW load. Depending on site conditions (available infrastructure), a barebones LM6000 plant could make economic sense.  The plant host would likely need to pay some sort of premium for generation reliability.  EES could sell fixed priced energy with a reliability premium to the DOE.  ENA would back-to-back the EES contract, managing market price risk and economically optimizing the peaker. As a stand-alone market play, a peaker is marginal at best.  By receiving value for reliability, the project might have merit.  Based on the thin margins, I am skeptical that we would want to build a plant larger than the host's load... that is more MW than that amount on which we could expect to receive some sort of demand charge.  Ultimately, the demand charge needs to make up the shortfall between EPMI's swap value and the cost of the plant. Steve Enron North America Corp. 
Thanks for the extremely helpful analysis Steve and John.  I'm getting a pretty clear sense that this project isn't going anywhere as it is currently configured.  Just to satisfy myself, though, let me throw out a couple of 
John's proposed plant costs are consistent with what we have seen for our ongoing LM6000 development.   I have priced 130 MW at Four Corners  assuming Permian gas plus 50 cents for transport.  This also assumes $4.70 per MWh for O&M and an 8000 heat rate. For an hourly 7x24 product, the intrinsic value of the gas-power swap is $52.5 million on a 20 year deal, well below the $108 million estimate of constructing the facility.  A ten year swap is worth only $42 million (NPV = -66 m ).  That implies a market mid-price of $34 per MWh levelized over the period. Using the ENA Power and Gas structuring model and curves, we can determine the following: 1.  New build gas turbines cannot compete against the New Mexico market on price. 2.  LM6000 CCGT efficiency gain does not pay for HRSG and ST over a ten year period. However: 1.  Transmission constraints could create market value in Albuquerque that does not exist at Four Corners. 2.  ENA's power prices typically undersell the market. 3.  Commodity pricing does not accurately value capacity or reliability in constrained markets. If Enron wants to do a deal in Albuquerque, we should be selling capacity and reliability.  Given the number of power- critical industries in the area, we could look at siting several remote units at different locations in the city.  Numerous chip manufacturing facilities and the Kirtland base could support several LM6000's for power reliability that is specific to their installations. I might also suggest that peaking units would have advantages over CCGT units.  Existing generation already provides ample baseload supply, however, the production of peak and intermediate energy is not necessarily well suited to existing units.  LM6000's have exceptionally good ramp rates that provide real value to a utility customer.  Not only can the HRSG/ST hinder the flexibility of the units, it can add substantial capital and operating expense with little real market benefit. We should also explore the ability to schedule load.  If the DOE wants to peak for a test, would it be willing or able to schedule a test for the off-peak hours?  Under those circumstances, we might be able to cut them a break on power and provide reliability of supply. Steve Thome 503-464-3708 John M Rose@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 06/15/2000 06:53 PM 
Bill, Yesterday, we decided to look at two options for Pueblo; a 60 MW case and a 140 MW case.  In order to match these outputs as closely as possible with available equipment, I made the following selections: Case 1 Equipment     3 X GE LM 2500 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 22 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   67 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  73.4 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  8170 Btu/kWh (HHV) Case 2 Equipment     3 X GE LM 6000 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 44 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   130 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  143.7 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  7900 Btu/kWh (HHV) There is a wide fluctuation in ambient temperature in Albuquerque and I sized the blocks based on 95 deg F but used the annual average output at 60 deg F for estimating power sales.  I have attached files that show the build-up of the estimated EPC price for the plants. The required power prices are projected in a simple-minded economics file attached.  The projections are based on: 70% debt financing at 10% rate. 10-year project and debt life. 8500 hours per year at average output (97% capacity factor). Gas at $4.40/MMBtu. The results turn out pretty much as anticipated.  Even with the larger plant, we'd have to sell the power for over 6c/kWh. 
pls print up on letterhead and format correctly for me to send out.  thanks. df 
It's against my nature, but I'm getting pretty close to giving up.  Attached is a draft letter to Langley punting the project.  I've tried to sugar coat it as much as possible so he doesn't get pissed off and automatically go to El Paso if he does somehow get the project built.  The letter is based on the assumption that we will call them first to explain where we are.   Also, I've assumed that we won't send Dennis any of the data from EE&CC or ENA.  I think we can chat generally on the phone and give them the ballpark results without actually sending the schedules to him.  Please give me a call so we can help Steve with his script for when he calls Langley.  (did you notice how I disappear when things start to go south?)  Talk to you soon.  DF 
Ha!  I appreciate the complement but I like my current job just fine--all I have to do is crap on a contract now and then and argue with Mary Kay all day long.  Piece of cake!  DF Steven Harris 06/19/2000 10:53 AM 
Excellent questions! Are you sure you don't want a job in the Commercial Group? You talent as a deal maker is definitely underutilized. 
Thanks for the extremely helpful analysis Steve and John.  I'm getting a pretty clear sense that this project isn't going anywhere as it is currently configured.  Just to satisfy myself, though, let me throw out a couple of 
John's proposed plant costs are consistent with what we have seen for our ongoing LM6000 development.   I have priced 130 MW at Four Corners  assuming Permian gas plus 50 cents for transport.  This also assumes $4.70 per MWh for O&M and an 8000 heat rate. For an hourly 7x24 product, the intrinsic value of the gas-power swap is $52.5 million on a 20 year deal, well below the $108 million estimate of constructing the facility.  A ten year swap is worth only $42 million (NPV = -66 m ).  That implies a market mid-price of $34 per MWh levelized over the period. Using the ENA Power and Gas structuring model and curves, we can determine the following: 1.  New build gas turbines cannot compete against the New Mexico market on price. 2.  LM6000 CCGT efficiency gain does not pay for HRSG and ST over a ten year period. However: 1.  Transmission constraints could create market value in Albuquerque that does not exist at Four Corners. 2.  ENA's power prices typically undersell the market. 3.  Commodity pricing does not accurately value capacity or reliability in constrained markets. If Enron wants to do a deal in Albuquerque, we should be selling capacity and reliability.  Given the number of power- critical industries in the area, we could look at siting several remote units at different locations in the city.  Numerous chip manufacturing facilities and the Kirtland base could support several LM6000's for power reliability that is specific to their installations. I might also suggest that peaking units would have advantages over CCGT units.  Existing generation already provides ample baseload supply, however, the production of peak and intermediate energy is not necessarily well suited to existing units.  LM6000's have exceptionally good ramp rates that provide real value to a utility customer.  Not only can the HRSG/ST hinder the flexibility of the units, it can add substantial capital and operating expense with little real market benefit. We should also explore the ability to schedule load.  If the DOE wants to peak for a test, would it be willing or able to schedule a test for the off-peak hours?  Under those circumstances, we might be able to cut them a break on power and provide reliability of supply. Steve Thome 503-464-3708 John M Rose@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 06/15/2000 06:53 PM 
Bill, Yesterday, we decided to look at two options for Pueblo; a 60 MW case and a 140 MW case.  In order to match these outputs as closely as possible with available equipment, I made the following selections: Case 1 Equipment     3 X GE LM 2500 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 22 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   67 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  73.4 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  8170 Btu/kWh (HHV) Case 2 Equipment     3 X GE LM 6000 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 44 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   130 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  143.7 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  7900 Btu/kWh (HHV) There is a wide fluctuation in ambient temperature in Albuquerque and I sized the blocks based on 95 deg F but used the annual average output at 60 deg F for estimating power sales.  I have attached files that show the build-up of the estimated EPC price for the plants. The required power prices are projected in a simple-minded economics file attached.  The projections are based on: 70% debt financing at 10% rate. 10-year project and debt life. 8500 hours per year at average output (97% capacity factor). Gas at $4.40/MMBtu. The results turn out pretty much as anticipated.  Even with the larger plant, we'd have to sell the power for over 6c/kWh. 
Thanks for the extremely helpful analysis Steve and John.  I'm getting a pretty clear sense that this project isn't going anywhere as it is currently configured.  Just to satisfy myself, though, let me throw out a couple of 
John's proposed plant costs are consistent with what we have seen for our ongoing LM6000 development.   I have priced 130 MW at Four Corners  assuming Permian gas plus 50 cents for transport.  This also assumes $4.70 per MWh for O&M and an 8000 heat rate. For an hourly 7x24 product, the intrinsic value of the gas-power swap is $52.5 million on a 20 year deal, well below the $108 million estimate of constructing the facility.  A ten year swap is worth only $42 million (NPV = -66 m ).  That implies a market mid-price of $34 per MWh levelized over the period. Using the ENA Power and Gas structuring model and curves, we can determine the following: 1.  New build gas turbines cannot compete against the New Mexico market on price. 2.  LM6000 CCGT efficiency gain does not pay for HRSG and ST over a ten year period. However: 1.  Transmission constraints could create market value in Albuquerque that does not exist at Four Corners. 2.  ENA's power prices typically undersell the market. 3.  Commodity pricing does not accurately value capacity or reliability in constrained markets. If Enron wants to do a deal in Albuquerque, we should be selling capacity and reliability.  Given the number of power- critical industries in the area, we could look at siting several remote units at different locations in the city.  Numerous chip manufacturing facilities and the Kirtland base could support several LM6000's for power reliability that is specific to their installations. I might also suggest that peaking units would have advantages over CCGT units.  Existing generation already provides ample baseload supply, however, the production of peak and intermediate energy is not necessarily well suited to existing units.  LM6000's have exceptionally good ramp rates that provide real value to a utility customer.  Not only can the HRSG/ST hinder the flexibility of the units, it can add substantial capital and operating expense with little real market benefit. We should also explore the ability to schedule load.  If the DOE wants to peak for a test, would it be willing or able to schedule a test for the off-peak hours?  Under those circumstances, we might be able to cut them a break on power and provide reliability of supply. Steve Thome 503-464-3708 John M Rose@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 06/15/2000 06:53 PM 
Bill, Yesterday, we decided to look at two options for Pueblo; a 60 MW case and a 140 MW case.  In order to match these outputs as closely as possible with available equipment, I made the following selections: Case 1 Equipment     3 X GE LM 2500 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 22 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   67 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  73.4 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  8170 Btu/kWh (HHV) Case 2 Equipment     3 X GE LM 6000 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 44 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   130 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  143.7 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  7900 Btu/kWh (HHV) There is a wide fluctuation in ambient temperature in Albuquerque and I sized the blocks based on 95 deg F but used the annual average output at 60 deg F for estimating power sales.  I have attached files that show the build-up of the estimated EPC price for the plants. The required power prices are projected in a simple-minded economics file attached.  The projections are based on: 70% debt financing at 10% rate. 10-year project and debt life. 8500 hours per year at average output (97% capacity factor). Gas at $4.40/MMBtu. The results turn out pretty much as anticipated.  Even with the larger plant, we'd have to sell the power for over 6c/kWh. 
Give me a yell when you are ready to call Golub back--he's an old Baker and Botts colleague of mine and I'd like to be on the call just to say hi. Thanks. DF 
pls print with attachments.  thanks. df 
Bill, Yesterday, we decided to look at two options for Pueblo; a 60 MW case and a 140 MW case.  In order to match these outputs as closely as possible with available equipment, I made the following selections: Case 1 Equipment     3 X GE LM 2500 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 22 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   67 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  73.4 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  8170 Btu/kWh (HHV) Case 2 Equipment     3 X GE LM 6000 Gas Turbine Generators with Heat Recovery and 1 X 44 MW Steam Turbine Generator Output at 95 deg F & 5000 ft   130 MW Output at avg. conditions (60 deg F)  143.7 MW Heat Rate at avg. conditions  7900 Btu/kWh (HHV) There is a wide fluctuation in ambient temperature in Albuquerque and I sized the blocks based on 95 deg F but used the annual average output at 60 deg F for estimating power sales.  I have attached files that show the build-up of the estimated EPC price for the plants. The required power prices are projected in a simple-minded economics file attached.  The projections are based on: 70% debt financing at 10% rate. 10-year project and debt life. 8500 hours per year at average output (97% capacity factor). Gas at $4.40/MMBtu. The results turn out pretty much as anticipated.  Even with the larger plant, we'd have to sell the power for over 6c/kWh. 
First, congratulations to all five of you and the others on your staffs who were involved for working together to get the excess line pack deal done today.  As I understand it, TK was able to sell 10,000 MMBtu at the Cal Border for something like $15 thanks to your efforts.  This thing went from Dave and Kent's idea to you guys' execution in about two days, even with a (slight) delay due to my panic attack on whether we can make downstream sales.   Great job!   Second, I think TK, Kevin, Maria and Glen and I have come up with a workable set of guidelines on when similar deals can be done in the future.  The key, as I expressed in the attached email, is that the sales be driven by a legitimate operational basis.  If Gas Control verifies that we have excess line pack at a location and that making the sale helps get line pack to optimal levels, such sales are appropriate.  Gas Control should also verify that the operational basis for the sale can be documented if the need ever arises.  Today's deal is a great example of that as we actually communicated to outside parties that we anticipated some pressure management issues.  If there are ever any questions about when such deals are appropriate, or about how to document the operational basis, please give me, Susan, or Maria a call.  Again, great job!  DF 
This morning I raised a concern regarding TW's sale of excess fuel at downstream points.  Here's the problem:  the tariff requires shippers to tender fuel to us at their receipt points.  With rare exceptions, those receipt points are not at the Cal. border.  Order 636 mandates that pipelines unbundle transportation from storage.  It also requires that pipelines that make gas sales do so at the furthest upstream point on their pipeline.  That latter requirement means that if a pipe buys gas at point ""x"", it should resell the gas at point ""x"" and not haul the gas to point ""y"" and then sell it there as a delivered (i.e., bundled) product.  My concern this morning was that our receipt of fuel gas in the San Juan or Permian and shipment of that gas to the Cal. border for sale arguably violates the unbundling requirement (because the Cal. border sale is a bundled combination of the sale and the transportation of the gas to the downstream location) or the ""furthest upstream point"" requirement or both.  Susan and my recollection was that when ECS wanted to receive the Gallup fuel deliveries at  a point other than Permian pool, we made them sign a transport contract to move the gas to where they wanted it.  I haven't confirmed that recollection but I am recalling that we told Courtney that we couldn't just move our fuel gas around whereever we wanted it--we needed someone to pay us to transport it. Irrespective of what we did with ECS, I think the following is the correct way to look at this situation:  We receive fuel at the shippers' receipt points.  Once we receive it, however, it is no longer ""fuel.""  It becomes line pack until it is burned.   Line pack moves around based on a lot of reasons, including shipper imbalances, etc.  It also, obviously, has to move to the compressors where it is burned as fuel.   It is our job to  manage line pack, and that means we buy line pack at locations where we are short, and sell it at locations where we are long.  If we end up long at the Cal. border from time to time, we should sell excess line pack to get line pack back to optimal levels.  I wouldn't want to get into a pattern where we are consistently buying line pack in the San Juan and Permian and selling line pack at the Cal. border, but  thats not what we are talking about here.  I can't think of anything in the tariff or otherwise that is inconsistent with this interpretation of our authority as operator of the pipeline.  MKM--OK with you?  DF 
Great. 
We do in fact have a lot of captive markets.  I don't have a problem with S= &P=20 saying that, although I wouldn't want Enron saying it too often.  In genera= l=20 I'm OK.  Thanks. DF =20   
I have a little discomfort with the reference a couple of times, that our= =20 customers have no options.  If used and published this could impact us on o= ur=20 argument related to risk of market.  Drew, what do you think??  MK =20   
Tim Despain  received a draft copy of S&P annual review from the S&P rep.  = He=20 was given the opportunity to comment on the draft.  The annual review will = be=20 an S&P analysis, not an Enron release.  Dave Neubauer didn't change the=20 wording much from the original S&P draft, but his changes improved the=20 original draft.  Here's how it looked before his edits: Northern Natural Gas Company: =01(Northern Natural is a huge pipeline system that dominates gas deliverie= s in=20 Minnesota and parts of Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan, and South Dakota.  The=20 system=01,s above-average business profile reflects the only moderate amoun= t of=20 direct pipeline competition the company faces in its service area.  The=20 upper-Midwest is a particularly cold region that uses a lot of natural gas,= =20 and Northern Natural=01,s customers (mainly gas utilities and municipalitie= s)=20 have little options for other fuels.  Thus, the pipeline is in a strong=20 position to maintain existing sales and garner any new load.  Throughput=20 growth has been modest.  Although there is some ongoing recontracting risk = as=20 firm transportation service contracts expire, most customers have no other= =20 options other than Northern Natural.  Competition for at-risk capacity is= =20 stiff, given the excess pipe capacity available on the other Midwest=20 pipelines and the new pipeline construction in the Midwest.  Northern Natur= al=01, s cost structure is very competitive.  A major rate case was settled in 199= 9=20 that extended many firm contracts with most of its customers. If anyone has further comments, I would suggest sending them directly to Ti= m=20 Despain. Gina Taylor@EES 06/13/2000 09:45 AM 
Bob, Good Morning! This write-up made it back to me for my reveiw.  Has Mary Kay Miller review= ed=20 this?  And what about Scott Vonderheide in Investor Relations?  I think bot= h=20 of these groups need to sign off on this. Gina 
This is what Dave Neubauer sent to Schafer.  Just wanted to make sure you a= re=20 ok with that.  Please give me a call after you review.  Thanks. 
Here is Dave Neubauer's revised draft for NNG's section of the S&P report: Northern Natural Gas Company: Northern Natural is a large pipeline system that provides gas deliveries in= to=20 Minnesota and parts of Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan, and South Dakota.  The=20 system=01,s above-average business profile reflects only a moderate amount = of=20 direct pipeline competition. The upper-Midwest is a particularly cold regio= n=20 with heavy natural gas usage. Although throughput growth has been modest,= =20 many of Northern Natural=01,s customers (mainly gas utilities and=20 municipalities) do not have dual fuel capabilities.  This allows Northern= =20 Natural to maintain existing sales and garner any new load. Competition for= =20 at-risk capacity is stiff, given the excess pipe capacity available and und= er=20 construction on other Midwest pipelines. Northern has some ongoing=20 recontracting risk over the next five to seven years, but maintains a very= =20 competitive cost structure.  A major rate case was settled in 1999 that=20 extended many firm contracts with most of its customers. 
If that's all we need commercially, I'm fine with it.  I'd be more enthusiastic if we thought that their removal of the protest would clear up all FERC's issues and result in cancellation of the tech. conf. and prompt approval of the filing, but I suspect that is too much to ask for.  DF 
I don't think I gave you George Briden's number in my voice mail today.  Its 401-934-1433.  Just out of curiosity, please let me know if they are as eager 
Two answers:  1.  Just yourselves.  Sandra has laid in an excessive quantity of vittles and libations.  2.  Good idea.  Tryiing to launch an effort like that now would be a nightmare, but after Conoco, we'll have a lot of organizational work anyway.  Thanks.  df Kathy Ringblom 06/12/2000 08:54 AM 
#1 - Is there anything we can bring Saturday night? #2 - Regarding the ""record retention"" problem, I was thinking that when this Conoco case is over, that might be a good time to go through all of the boxes we have pulled (probably close to 150) and weed out all of the stuff we don't need anymore  - which in the case of many of the boxes, may be the entire contents - instead of sending them all back to storage.  Maybe we could distribute copies of each department's record retention policy, figure out a way for the ""owner"" of the boxes' contents to come into the box room, review them and make a decision at that time. 
Great.  Thanks to you all for your careful work and patience.  DF Maria Pavlou 06/06/2000 11:21 AM 
This language is ok with Frank and Steve.  Thanks, Maria 
New language:  The one-part rate bid shall be inclusive of all applicable reservation charges, commodity charges, and the ACA surcharge, and exclusive of fuel.  There are no other surcharges.  The shipper with the accepted bid will be billed the product of the rate-bid and the total contract quantity for the term of the agreement. 
I'd drop the dash in ""rate-bid"" but otherwise am OK.  Thanks. DF Maria Pavlou 06/06/2000 02:51 AM 
We have modified the last sentence of the rate paragraph on p. 3 and have added another sentence as follows:  The one-part rate bid shall be inclusive of all applicable reservation, commodity, and surcharges, and exclusive of applicable fuel.  The shipper with the accepted bid will be billed the product of the rate-bid and the total contract quantity for the term of the 
OK.  DF Christine Stokes 06/05/2000 02:17 PM 
REVISED CONTRACT APPROVAL REQUEST Attached is a revised non-standard discount letter for Southwest Gas Corporation (SWG).  SWG shall enter into a 10 year agreement for 14,000 Dth/d of seasonal (November through March  period) capacity from Transwestern's East of Thoreau (EOT) Area to the Southwest Interconnect located in the East of California Area.  The $.10/Dth/d transportation rate shall increase annually by $.005/Dth/d for the term of the agreement.  Alternate receipt point rights shall be from Transwestern's EOT Area and from the Bloomfield Compressor.  SWG ROFR rights shall be waived. Paragragh 6 has been revised.  Transwestern is proposing the ability to retain any capacity release revenues which SWG may realize for capacity released at rates above the applicable discounted transportation rated provided by Transwestern to SWG.  This paragraph now stipulates that in the event that the FERC does not grant Transwestern the ability to retain these defined revenues, then this provision, provided in Paragragh 6, shall be deleted and the remaining contractual agreement and applicable discount provisions agreed upon between Shipper and Transwestern shall be kept in place. Please indicate your approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.  All Officer approvals shall be faxed to Bill Cordes for final Officer approval. 
pls print .  thanks. DF 
Do you know anyone in ROW who could give me a sense of what ROW currently is going for in $/ mile, in New Mexico?  Please forward this to anyone you think might be able to give me some insight on recent right of way procurement by 
This morning I raised a concern regarding TW's sale of excess fuel at downstream points.  Here's the problem:  the tariff requires shippers to tender fuel to us at their receipt points.  With rare exceptions, those receipt points are not at the Cal. border.  Order 636 mandates that pipelines unbundle transportation from storage.  It also requires that pipelines that make gas sales do so at the furthest upstream point on their pipeline.  That latter requirement means that if a pipe buys gas at point ""x"", it should resell the gas at point ""x"" and not haul the gas to point ""y"" and then sell it there as a delivered (i.e., bundled) product.  My concern this morning was that our receipt of fuel gas in the San Juan or Permian and shipment of that gas to the Cal. border for sale arguably violates the unbundling requirement (because the Cal. border sale is a bundled combination of the sale and the transportation of the gas to the downstream location) or the ""furthest upstream point"" requirement or both.  Susan and my recollection was that when ECS wanted to receive the Gallup fuel deliveries at  a point other than Permian pool, we made them sign a transport contract to move the gas to where they wanted it.  I haven't confirmed that recollection but I am recalling that we told Courtney that we couldn't just move our fuel gas around whereever we wanted it--we needed someone to pay us to transport it. Irrespective of what we did with ECS, I think the following is the correct way to look at this situation:  We receive fuel at the shippers' receipt points.  Once we receive it, however, it is no longer ""fuel.""  It becomes line pack until it is burned.   Line pack moves around based on a lot of reasons, including shipper imbalances, etc.  It also, obviously, has to move to the compressors where it is burned as fuel.   It is our job to  manage line pack, and that means we buy line pack at locations where we are short, and sell it at locations where we are long.  If we end up long at the Cal. border from time to time, we should sell excess line pack to get line pack back to optimal levels.  I wouldn't want to get into a pattern where we are consistently buying line pack in the San Juan and Permian and selling line pack at the Cal. border, but  thats not what we are talking about here.  I can't think of anything in the tariff or otherwise that is inconsistent with this interpretation of our authority as operator of the pipeline.  MKM--OK with you?  DF 
Just Jim's would be useful.  I'll let him know by cc.  Thanks. 06/02/2000 05:48 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 06/02/2000 05:48 PM 06/02/2000 05:48 PM 
martah - would you put me on the weekly distribution list??? drew - any interset in seeing my lads updates?? 
Yes.  Thanks.  DF 
Augie Shouse of V&E is coming over here at 3 tomorrow.  Dari, I'll dial you in.  Kent--do you want to be involved?  Paul, could you and Ted join us at 3 to talk about the credit/guarantee issues?  Hopefully we'll know more by then about where TCEM is coming from.  DF 
Martha, please print up and sign for me and send.  Thanks.  Robert--this is what I'm sending to Emma.  Nothing definite yet, but Soldano might have something soon.  I didn't want to raise expectations on that yet.   DF Martha Benner 06/01/2000 07:34 AM 
See attached.  One thing on the letter I am not sure on the procedure you used in interviewing her in Houston.  Will check on the VFT order when people start arriving this AM and I will get your mail sent overnight to you.  Talk with you later. Martha 
Cool--I'm in Monday--lets talk then.  Thanks. DF 
Drew - Just wanted to follow up on our discussion on Monday about new services, especially hourly firm.   As we discussed our team does not see a need to create or offer this service at this time. However, we did not get a chance to discuss the merits of going forward anyway to act on the receptivity of FERC to these services.   Please give me a call or let me know when we can stop by to discuss briefly.  I would like Tim to participate in the discussion as well.  He is out today meeting w/ GRE and will be back on Friday. Thanks.  John PS - I could give you a quick update on Hubbard at that time also. 
Is that point the receipt point Sempra would have to use to take the base gas volumes away from Cunningham?  Thanks.  DF 
They nominate the SF to market services also, in addition to any transport they have?  Dari, please follow up on this with market services and verify what the procedures are and let us all know.    Again, this may relate to a counterproposal we make to TCEM if they barf on the corporate guarantee issue, so time is of the essence.  Thanks.  DF Sue M Neville                05/31/2000 11:14 AM 
addition to my first reply: Also, Sempra does not nominate to Kent/Sue/Morgan.  They nominate to Market Services.  Sempra's scheduler would not even think to call any one of us.  We would only hope their deal maker, David Otte, would be in the loop on their side and notify one of us if they ever decided to go physical. Sue 
Thanks.  I think I've already got things squared away with Jerry.  DF AnnMarie Tiller 05/31/2000 05:21 PM 
Drew, I just finished leaving you a voicemail message in response to your question about a contact in the state tax area.   I'm not sure the voicemail system saved my message, however, because it didn't respond in the same manner as the system here. Just in case, I thought I would leave you this e:mail message as well. The person whose name I left you in the last message was Jerry Moore (713) 853-1712.   Another person who might be helpful is Carol Brantz (713) 853-7180.   I'm not sure which of these folks is more apppropriate for purposes of obtaining an answer to your question.   Good luck. Regards, AnnMarie 
OK.  DF 
I have the copy with the receipts if you want to see it when you are here in Houston. 
This is a problem your people should be aware of because I think our usual practice when we want to verify ownership structure is to call the corporate secretary's office.  If they are behind, I don't know who we should go to in the future.  Maybe we need to run everything by corp. tax from now on.  Ugh. DF 
The erroneous statements found in the Form 2 related to Transwestern today are traceable in part to the fact that the Corporate Secretary's Data Sheets are months behind in their accuracy.  This is not the first instance where serious and costly errors have been made by persons who were relying on the data sheets for accurate ownership information on Enron Corp. subsidiaries. If you have any creative ideas on finding a remedy for the extremely long lag time between the submission of final documentation to the Corporate Secretary and the updating of the sheets, please let me know.  In the meantime, be aware that the information is not necessarily reliable. Thanks Alicia 
I agree with Susan.  df 
pls let me know if you will be able to cover this--I'm out of pocket. thanks. df (also--leave me a voice mail at x37555 on how things are going out in Cal.) 
I'll look at it on the plane and talk to you tomorrow.  DF Michael Moran 11/28/2000 04:51 PM 
FYI. After you review we can discuss. 
This is the latest draft from Julie for your review. I realize we will discuss at the staff meeting on Monday. Thanks. Julia 
They nominate the SF to market services also, in addition to any transport they have?  Dari, please follow up on this with market services and verify what the procedures are and let us all know.    Again, this may relate to a counterproposal we make to TCEM if they barf on the corporate guarantee issue, so time is of the essence.  Thanks.  DF Sue M Neville                05/31/2000 11:14 AM 
addition to my first reply: Also, Sempra does not nominate to Kent/Sue/Morgan.  They nominate to Market Services.  Sempra's scheduler would not even think to call any one of us.  We would only hope their deal maker, David Otte, would be in the loop on their side and notify one of us if they ever decided to go physical. Sue 
Please go ahead and do a letter--Lou is considering talking with her but isn't sure yet.  Thanks DF Martha Benner 05/31/2000 02:52 PM 
Will do it right now.  Do you want to wait on the letter?  Did you mention it in the meeting today? 
pls send emma's resume to Lou Soldano.   Lou, please give me a call if you 
Thanks for the heads up--I'll talk to him tomorrow.  DF Julia White 05/30/2000 04:38 PM 
Drew--Mike said he would get with you about these changes he made to the press release below. We are close!! Julia 
I recall that we set up a warning flag approach with market services last year to make sure that Sempra never ""goes physical"" without us manning the battle stations and deciding what to do.  Do you guys know who the noms would come in to in Market Services if Sempra ever decided to try to take their gas out of Cunningham and move it off system?  Care to venture a guess as to what that person would do if a 100,000 nom by Sempra into an IT contract for a haul from the Cunningham storage point to Demarc hit their desk?  Sempra couldn't nom the gas into a transport contract without first giving Kent/Sue/Morgan a physical delivery nom under the SF agreement, correct?  At which point we would immediately nom the SBA, correct? These issues may be important to our closing this year's deal if TCEM can't come up with the corp. guarantee.  I.e., if we can retain absolute control of the noms, do we really have any ""go physical"" risk???  We need to think this 
Denise, pls print for me.  Thanks DF 
For some reason the initial email didn't go through to him--I forwarded it separately.  Thanks.  DF 
Per our discussion last week, this is the status on Pueblo.  I think we need to establish to our satisfaction the bona fides of Dennis' government contracting scheme before we pitch hard to have ENA get into the deal and scrub down the numbers on the power plant.  If our govcon gurus (Bill Votaw and Bill Gang--both ex military guys working on DOD outsourcing deals for Enron Federal Solutions) buy off on it, then I think we brief Stan at that point.  You, Stan and Steve will then need to decide the best way to pitch ENA to verify the economics and potentially get into the deal.  Either we'd have Stan push from the top down or have Kevin and  Steve go directly to the ENA deal guys.  More to follow. 
I just talked to Tino Monaldo, Dennis Langley's lawyer/project manager for the Pueblo project.  I explained Bill and Bill's credentials and concerns and Tino suggested that a sit down between Enron and their government contracts team might be helpful.  He offered to do it in Houston, probably late next week or the following week.  Attending would be Dennis, Tino, and their outside lawyers, Jim Slattery and Rick Harrington.  Harrington is the key--he is a retired military guy and one of the lead govt. contracts lawyers at my old firm in DC.  The would basically put on a dog and pony walking us all through their sole source strategy,  including their legal interpretations and the allies they have lined up within DOE/DOD.  Bill and Bill--does such a meeting sound productive?  If so, should we have outside govt. contracts counsel present and if so, who do you suggest? On a related note, Tino explained (without me asking or really caring) that he was in the middle of a ""big drafting project""--revising Dennis' joint venture agreement with the Isleta.  I took the opportunity to express my concern at how far down the road Dennis is getting on the overall deal, including structure issues, without knowing whether Enron is even on board. I reminded Tino that GPG has not committed to participating in the pipeline or the power plant, and that we have not obtained ENA's agreement to commit turbines.   Apparently Dennis believes that if the economics pans out, Enron or someone else yet to be identified will magically jump in to the deal with money, turbines, etc.   If Enron does eventually decide to get into this deal, the agreements and promises that Dennis has already made may need to be revisited.   Thanks for your patience on this project.  DF 
I'm on board with the low key concept and the bullets look great.  Some minor comments attached.  Thanks for spearheading this, Shelley.  DF Shelley Corman 05/26/2000 02:09 PM 
I'm currently scheduled to meet with Kevin Madden and other members of OMTR, including hopefully Mike Coleman, Rob Cupina and Alice Fernandez, next Wed. May 31 to give them a heads-up on GPG's upcoming use of EOL.  I also hope to meet with several of the Commissioners' assistants.  The timing of the meeting is to ensure that we get to them prior to a press release. The approach is decidely low key.   There is a feeling that if we make a big deal of this with FERC, then they will ask a lot of questions about why we aren't filing for permission.  Hopefully, if we explain that it doesn't change any of our current practices, that its just a new computer tool, they will chalk it up as another ecommerce story. I hope to talk about the GPG's use of EOL generally and not get deep into the mechanics of the specific TW auction.  The advantage of me doing the FERC briefing is that I can talk generally and claim that I'm not privy to the details of each of the pipelines possible EOL products. Attached is a rough outline of my message points and a few Q&As that I have thought of thus far.  Please send me your feedback (by noon on Tues. May 30) and any other Q&As that you think I should be prepared for. 
Per our discussion last week, this is the status on Pueblo.  I think we need to establish to our satisfaction the bona fides of Dennis' government contracting scheme before we pitch hard to have ENA get into the deal and scrub down the numbers on the power plant.  If our govcon gurus (Bill Votaw and Bill Gang--both ex military guys working on DOD outsourcing deals for Enron Federal Solutions) buy off on it, then I think we brief Stan at that point.  You, Stan and Steve will then need to decide the best way to pitch ENA to verify the economics and potentially get into the deal.  Either we'd have Stan push from the top down or have Kevin and  Steve go directly to the ENA deal guys.  More to follow. 
I just talked to Tino Monaldo, Dennis Langley's lawyer/project manager for the Pueblo project.  I explained Bill and Bill's credentials and concerns and Tino suggested that a sit down between Enron and their government contracts team might be helpful.  He offered to do it in Houston, probably late next week or the following week.  Attending would be Dennis, Tino, and their outside lawyers, Jim Slattery and Rick Harrington.  Harrington is the key--he is a retired military guy and one of the lead govt. contracts lawyers at my old firm in DC.  The would basically put on a dog and pony walking us all through their sole source strategy,  including their legal interpretations and the allies they have lined up within DOE/DOD.  Bill and Bill--does such a meeting sound productive?  If so, should we have outside govt. contracts counsel present and if so, who do you suggest? On a related note, Tino explained (without me asking or really caring) that he was in the middle of a ""big drafting project""--revising Dennis' joint venture agreement with the Isleta.  I took the opportunity to express my concern at how far down the road Dennis is getting on the overall deal, including structure issues, without knowing whether Enron is even on board. I reminded Tino that GPG has not committed to participating in the pipeline or the power plant, and that we have not obtained ENA's agreement to commit turbines.   Apparently Dennis believes that if the economics pans out, Enron or someone else yet to be identified will magically jump in to the deal with money, turbines, etc.   If Enron does eventually decide to get into this deal, the agreements and promises that Dennis has already made may need to be revisited.   Thanks for your patience on this project.  DF 
I couldn't get the email through to Bill Gang, so lets try William.  Bill V, if this doesn't show Bill G as an addressee, please forward from your computer.  Thanks.  DF 
I just talked to Tino Monaldo, Dennis Langley's lawyer/project manager for the Pueblo project.  I explained Bill and Bill's credentials and concerns and Tino suggested that a sit down between Enron and their government contracts team might be helpful.  He offered to do it in Houston, probably late next week or the following week.  Attending would be Dennis, Tino, and their outside lawyers, Jim Slattery and Rick Harrington.  Harrington is the key--he is a retired military guy and one of the lead govt. contracts lawyers at my old firm in DC.  The would basically put on a dog and pony walking us all through their sole source strategy,  including their legal interpretations and the allies they have lined up within DOE/DOD.  Bill and Bill--does such a meeting sound productive?  If so, should we have outside govt. contracts counsel present and if so, who do you suggest? On a related note, Tino explained (without me asking or really caring) that he was in the middle of a ""big drafting project""--revising Dennis' joint venture agreement with the Isleta.  I took the opportunity to express my concern at how far down the road Dennis is getting on the overall deal, including structure issues, without knowing whether Enron is even on board. I reminded Tino that GPG has not committed to participating in the pipeline or the power plant, and that we have not obtained ENA's agreement to commit turbines.   Apparently Dennis believes that if the economics pans out, Enron or someone else yet to be identified will magically jump in to the deal with money, turbines, etc.   If Enron does eventually decide to get into this deal, the agreements and promises that Dennis has already made may need to be revisited.   Thanks for your patience on this project.  DF 
Approved on behalf of Dari.  The attached document has the dates right--its Nov. 29, 2000 through Dec. 31, 2000.  DF 
I just talked to Tino Monaldo, Dennis Langley's lawyer/project manager for the Pueblo project.  I explained Bill and Bill's credentials and concerns and Tino suggested that a sit down between Enron and their government contracts team might be helpful.  He offered to do it in Houston, probably late next week or the following week.  Attending would be Dennis, Tino, and their outside lawyers, Jim Slattery and Rick Harrington.  Harrington is the key--he is a retired military guy and one of the lead govt. contracts lawyers at my old firm in DC.  The would basically put on a dog and pony walking us all through their sole source strategy,  including their legal interpretations and the allies they have lined up within DOE/DOD.  Bill and Bill--does such a meeting sound productive?  If so, should we have outside govt. contracts counsel present and if so, who do you suggest? On a related note, Tino explained (without me asking or really caring) that he was in the middle of a ""big drafting project""--revising Dennis' joint venture agreement with the Isleta.  I took the opportunity to express my concern at how far down the road Dennis is getting on the overall deal, including structure issues, without knowing whether Enron is even on board. I reminded Tino that GPG has not committed to participating in the pipeline or the power plant, and that we have not obtained ENA's agreement to commit turbines.   Apparently Dennis believes that if the economics pans out, Enron or someone else yet to be identified will magically jump in to the deal with money, turbines, etc.   If Enron does eventually decide to get into this deal, the agreements and promises that Dennis has already made may need to be 
I'll be in Houston so no need to dial me in!  DF 
I saw in the press that N.M. has delayed electric open access until Jan 1, 02 for residentials and small commercials and to July 1, 02 for large industrials.  That increases the likelihood that the Pueblo project will have to dump power in the wholesale market at 4 Corners for a while before retail markets start to open up.  One more thing to factor in. I'm expecting to hook up with Bill Votaw of Enron Federal Solutions today to talk about Langley's ""sole source"" procurement strategy with DOE.  I hope to get Votaw on the phone with Langley's D.C. govt. contracts lawyers to discuss their theory.  We should be in a better position to raise a flag if the sole source strategy is really a high risk approach.  I'm not sure where that would leave us because the only other approach I can think of is to steer DOE into opening the power plant up for bids.  Langley does not appear interested in trying to win an open bid for the power plant, although frankly we would probably have about as good a chance as anyone of winning. Once we clear up the government contracts issues (if ever) it seems to me that it would be time to expand the team to include Federal Solutions (potentially, if they see an angle to help them with their Kirtland outsourcing strategy) and ENA.  The ENA involvement would be particularly important so we could get a line of specific turbine availability and the specifications/economics that would result.  I'm probably engaging in wishful thinking again, but my hope is that the economics on a specific turbine/heat exchanger configuration work out a little better than the generic economics from the model that James ran.   If we think this thing is a potentially viable deal after I talk to Votaw and the Langley DC team, we need to grab Bill Cordes and discuss whether we go to ENA ""from the bottom up,"" or through Stan ""from the top down"" to get hooked into a deal team over there.  Kevin, I still intend to hook you into the Votaw-DC call if you are available. 
I second that--thanks a lot!!  DF Martha Benner 05/19/2000 04:14 PM 
Want to thank you so much for all your help in obtaining the satellite phone for our usage.  It was a very short notice and you were able to come through and with no hesitation on your parts.  It is so nice to have good people to work with and you were so helpful and professional during the whole situation.  I was a novice at this phone thing and you were helpful ever step of the way. Again, thank you. Martha Benner 
pls get me scheduled on this.  thanks. df 
I have not received your response as to which Orientation you will be able to attend next week.  Please let me know as soon as possible your preferred date/time.  If you are unable to attend one of these sessions, please let me know and I will make arrangements with you to do an individual session for you. 
Another Tino-gram.  DOE disclosed to Team Tino that they pay a $7.06/mo demand charge per KW in addition to the $.053/kwh energy charge.  Tino didn't know whether that was per KW of monthly demand, per KW of non-coincident peak usage, or what.  The PNM tariff for govt. service is priced at $7.16/KW of ""demand above 10,000kw during peak period""  (peak period is daytime) so I assume that is how it is calculated.  If that is the tariff (""Schedule 4000B"") under which DOE really takes service, this is interesting because that is not a very big discount off of the stated rate.  It is also interesting that DOE is paying $.053/kwh for energy since the Schedule 4000B energy rate is $.05072/kwh (maybe the difference is surcharges or something). Tino's consultant has figured out that the demand charge equates to an incremental $.011 in addition to the $.053/kwh energy charge, for a total delivered PNM rate to DOE of $.064/kwh.  This is not as good as the 7 cent number Tino threw around earlier in the week, but its still not terrible.  If the bogey is a 10% reduction to the current rate, our number to beat is $.0576/kwh.  Tino promised us copies of DOE's actual energy bills to confirm these numbers.  That would be great and solves the due diligence problem you and I talked about yesterday, Kevin. Tino also passed along a rumor he heard from the Isleta's consultant that the Cobisa Belen project is dead.  Do we know anything about this??? Interesting.  I'm waiting to hear back from Bill Votaw to line up a due diligence call to Tino's government contracts lawyers in DC to confirm whether the ""sole source"" strategy is legit.  Kevin, I'll let you know when 
I wouldn't miss it!  DF 
this guy  cracks me up 
Well, if she's ""very bright, personable, and enthusiastic"" she certainly won't fit in with us. I'll follow up with mike and shelly on the person we were thiniking of splitting for the summer - that may already be a done deal, if not it may make sense to do something more permanent but we will need to look at budget... i could probably use some part time help with Bret Reich exiled to Phase IV but i should have a licensed lawyer for that. 
At the suggestion of Robert Jones (you remember him--one of the growing legion of ex-GPG HR representatives), I interviewed a lady named Emma Caplan yesterday.  She is the wife of a guy that Enron Networks brought over to Houston from London.  She is a ""Solicitor"" in the English legal system, and got her law degree at the University of Wales.  She has not taken an American bar exam but may be able to take DC or New York.  For some reason related to practice of foreign lawyers in TX, she can't take the TX bar until she has gotten a US law degree.  This person is very bright, personable, and enthusiastic.  She is extremely interested in working for Enron, either as a lawyer once she gets her license squared away, or in a paralegal or analyst position until then. I left a copy of her resume with Emily, and I'd ask that she please forward it to each of you.  If any of you have need for such an individual or have ideas she should pursue within Enron (or outside Enron), please call Robert or myself.  Thanks.  DF 
Please give me a call ASAP on marketing affiliate issue on TW Enron Online deal.  Cell 402-630-8461 or home 402-572-8595.  I'm in tomorrow around 7:45. 
Tino implied that it was transferrable, but we'd need to look at the documents to be surre.  DF Kevin Hyatt 11/28/2000 09:44 AM 
A perfected (or nearly perfected) ROW may have some merit, especially as ENA continues their negotiations to further develop that power plant in Albuquerque.  I'll have Jeff call ENA, and without giving anything away, find out how their negotiations are progressing.  I wonder to what extent Dennis' agreement with the tribe is transferable? Enron Energy Services 
Tino called this morning with a quick report.  They are still negotiating with DOE on a power plant deal, but it looks pretty shaky.  The size of the plant has grown to 380 MW, for reasons that are unclear to me.  Tino has been ordered to develop an exit strategy in case the power plant deal falls apart.  He says Dennis has about $3 mm in the project so far, most of it related to the pipeline right of way.  The have a binding 20 year agreement with the tribes for the ROW that calls for a $100,000 minimum monthly payment.  I'm not sure the entire route is perfected or not or whether the ROW agreement includes fiber optic rights etc.  The question is whether we are even interested enough to justify a closer look, since the rights Dennis has pulled together will probably be available for cents on the dollar.  I told Tino I'd give him a call next week to let him know.  At minimum, I'd suggest we have one of our ROW guys take a look at whatever they've got and advise us on what its worth.  Your thoughts?  DF 
At the suggestion of Robert Jones (you remember him--one of the growing legion of ex-GPG HR representatives), I interviewed a lady named Emma Caplan yesterday.  She is the wife of a guy that Enron Networks brought over to Houston from London.  She is a ""Solicitor"" in the English legal system, and got her law degree at the University of Wales.  She has not taken an American bar exam but may be able to take DC or New York.  For some reason related to practice of foreign lawyers in TX, she can't take the TX bar until she has gotten a US law degree.  This person is very bright, personable, and enthusiastic.  She is extremely interested in working for Enron, either as a lawyer once she gets her license squared away, or in a paralegal or analyst position until then. I left a copy of her resume with Emily, and I'd ask that she please forward it to each of you.  If any of you have need for such an individual or have ideas she should pursue within Enron (or outside Enron), 
I met with Ms Caplan yesterday and had a good discussion.  I was pretty impressed with her.  The only down side is that her inability to sit for the Texas bar is a hangup for a lawyer position.   I suggested that she also look into getting her license in New York or D.C. as I think those jurisdictions are less reluctant to allow non-U.S. lawyers to sit for the bar than Texas is.  I'll talk to Mike Moran, Dot McCoppin, Britt Davis and Shelley Corman regaring possible positions in GPG.  Have you thought about Steve Kean's group?  They might be able to use someone like Emma.  I plan to write her in a couple of weeks to follow up with any additional leads I've found.  Enjoyed 
If we are still talking about 6-1, any time after 1 should work for me, as I've got a meeting that ends at 11:30 downtown.  How long does it take to drive to Katy at noon???  About 3 hours?  DF ""Peldner, Patrick"" <PPeldner@utilicorp.com> on 05/18/2000 12:11:41 PM 
> > >   Thanks for the offer!  Lets see when we get this event > scheduled and I may >   be able to take you up on it.  Looks like you Utilicorp guys > need to get >   coordinated or I may have to play golf twice.  That would be > brutal.  DF > > > > >   ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/16/2000 > 02:53:49 PM > 
>   > >   > How about Thursday or Friday, June 1 or 2 for a round of > golf?  I'm in >   HOU >   > all wk and the end of the wk looks pretty light.  I'd be > happy to venture >   > out west to your Katy/San Antonio nick of the woods if you > guys are >   > available.  Hill, are you gonna be in Houston around then? > If so, can >   you >   > sneak the clubs past your wife?  Please advise.  DF >   > >   > PS:  I met with Paul Bieniawski and his new storage group > today.  Do you >   > guys know how he parted terms with the Frogs? > > > 
I couldn't open the document, but that's OK as I will have no problem with whatever form and content you include, as long as they don't build in any links to porno sites or similar undesirable places.  Thanks. DF 
If you guys are just going to squabble like a couple of old ladies I'm not sure I want to play golf with you!  By the way, Hill, your excuse is lame.  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/18/2000 01:10:27 PM 
> > >    Thanks for the offer!  Lets see when we get this > event scheduled and I may >    be able to take you up on it.  Looks like you > Utilicorp guys need to get >    coordinated or I may have to play golf twice.  That > would be brutal.  DF > > > > >    ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on > 05/16/2000 02:53:49 PM > 
>    > >    > How about Thursday or Friday, June 1 or 2 for a > round of golf?  I'm in >    HOU >    > all wk and the end of the wk looks pretty light. > I'd be happy to venture >    > out west to your Katy/San Antonio nick of the > woods if you guys are >    > available.  Hill, are you gonna be in Houston > around then?  If so, can >    you >    > sneak the clubs past your wife?  Please advise. > DF >    > >    > PS:  I met with Paul Bieniawski and his new > storage group today.  Do you >    > guys know how he parted terms with the Frogs? > > > 
I got a call from Tino Monaldo today passing on the results of Dennis Langley's meeting with DOE in Albuquerque.  DOE indicated that their current PNM rate is ""5.3 cents, exclusive of the demand charge.""  Tino's consultant claims that factoring in the demand charge yields an effective rate of approximately 7 cents/KWh.  Assuming we need to come in at 10% less than the current rate, our bogey is 6.3 cents/KWh.  This is at the high end of the range we hoped they'd be in. Additionally, DOE indicated that they need ""redundancy"" and don't want to rely on PNM for back up power.  They want a multiple turbine facility--i.e., more smaller turbines instead of fewer large turbines.  The new pipeline will need to be split connected to El Paso and TW in order to access diverse supplies and guard against supply failure.  They have not asked for fuel oil backup. I know this is starting to look like the project that won't go away, but the power price number looks very promising to me.  I think its worth scrubbing down the model we've used to replace the generic capital cost and O&M assumptions with more specific assumptions related to the specific turbine configuration we'd be using. If this price is really as favorable as I think, can we make another run at the ENA people and Federal Solutions guys to see if they have any interest? 
I enjoyed meeting with you guys and your team this morning.  Our crack certificate people have already responded to my request, as you'll see below.  As you get deeper into the process, talking with Michele and her colleagues may be useful for you as they have been through it all before with FERC on storage projects.  Let me know if I can be of further help.  Thanks for the quick help, Michele.  DF 
Attached are a list of the exhibits for a certificate application and the environmental requirements (this document is the redline for the new environmental regulations under Order No. 603, 603A, & 603B). Within this document is the minimum checklist requirements for the environmental report. I included everything because ultimately we must provide everything --not just the minimum.   If this is too much or not enough let me know.   Also, the definition of an affected landowner on new or expansion of the boundaries of an existing storage facility includes both surface and subsurface owners for landowner notification requirements (such requirements are not included in the attached documents).  thanks MW 
Do we have anything off the shelf that we could send to some guys at ENA that are trying to understand the 7(c) process?  They asked me for something like a ""checklist"" of what you'd have to put in a cert. app. to build and operate a new storage project.  Any ideas would be appreciated.  DF 
Thanks for the offer!  Lets see when we get this event scheduled and I may be able to take you up on it.  Looks like you Utilicorp guys need to get coordinated or I may have to play golf twice.  That would be brutal.  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/16/2000 02:53:49 PM 
> > How about Thursday or Friday, June 1 or 2 for a round of golf?  I'm in HOU > all wk and the end of the wk looks pretty light.  I'd be happy to venture > out west to your Katy/San Antonio nick of the woods if you guys are > available.  Hill, are you gonna be in Houston around then?  If so, can you > sneak the clubs past your wife?  Please advise.  DF > > PS:  I met with Paul Bieniawski and his new storage group today.  Do you > guys know how he parted terms with the Frogs? 
How about Thursday or Friday, June 1 or 2 for a round of golf?  I'm in HOU all wk and the end of the wk looks pretty light.  I'd be happy to venture out west to your Katy/San Antonio nick of the woods if you guys are available. Hill, are you gonna be in Houston around then?  If so, can you sneak the clubs past your wife?  Please advise.  DF PS:  I met with Paul Bieniawski and his new storage group today.  Do you guys 
No problem with the plan to send a demand letter to El Paso on the measurement issue.  Please include me on distribution for the draft. 
Tino called this morning with a quick report.  They are still negotiating with DOE on a power plant deal, but it looks pretty shaky.  The size of the plant has grown to 380 MW, for reasons that are unclear to me.  Tino has been ordered to develop an exit strategy in case the power plant deal falls apart.  He says Dennis has about $3 mm in the project so far, most of it related to the pipeline right of way.  The have a binding 20 year agreement with the tribes for the ROW that calls for a $100,000 minimum monthly payment.  I'm not sure the entire route is perfected or not or whether the ROW agreement includes fiber optic rights etc.  The question is whether we are even interested enough to justify a closer look, since the rights Dennis has pulled together will probably be available for cents on the dollar.  I told Tino I'd give him a call next week to let him know.  At minimum, I'd suggest we have one of our ROW guys take a look at whatever they've got and 
I'm forwarding to each of you a fascinating document--Langley's proposal to the DOE.  It looks like he's already been fairly specific about the interest that the tribes will have in the various entities and contracts.  He also promised DOE a 10 % power cost reduction (before he even knew what they were currently paying).  He may have made some promises that are pretty to hard to 
pls print for Bill meeting.  thanks df 
Attached below is a proposed timeline for activities and deadlines for completion of such activities associated with the upcoming TW auction on EnronOnline. The timeline is set in order to meet the July 1 deadline for implementation. We have tried to structure the activities and deadlines so that it can be adapted to other GPG auctions as well. I appreciate everyone's help in advance in meeting these dates which I certainly realize are tight but are necessary in order to meet the July target. The key activities which are critical for completion for the week of May 15 are as follows: 1.Webtext for TW Auction----Finalized by Monday May 15 (to be handed off to EOL for auction site design). 2.Draft Customer Letter announcing auction out for internal comments by Wednesday May 17. In addition, a GPG distribution list for review of certain activities (i.e., customer letter, internal employee announcement, press release) has been included. We will  update this timeline once a week. If you have questions, please call. THANKS for everyone's help in moving us along so quickly so far!!! We will be able to meet the July goal!!! Julia Thank you, Tammy 
pls print for my Tues. am mtg in Houston.  thanks df 
I just wanted to clarify a few points mentioned in this diagram: 1.  The reason that gain recognition may be precluded under the equity sell down if Enron maintains a guarantee is because guarantees are considered ""continuing involvement"" under FAS 66 : Sale of Real Estate.  We would essentially own an interest in an asset which is considered real estate (per accounting rules). By maintaining a guarantee, Enron has not given up all of the risks and rewards of ownership and therefore true sale treatment would be precluded. 2.  The lease versus executory contract  debate is centered around the nature of the offtake agreement coupled with our involvement in the project. Involvement that requires us to take operational risk coupled with taking capacity leans toward a lease.  However, each deal is different and there isn't a bright line test for determining lease vs. executory; although, it certainly looks better if our offtake is minimal.  As well, LD language should not only be present but should be significant or market based.  In addition, the contract should not mention the storage facility, only that capacity will be provided.  Determining whether we are in a lease versus and executory contract is based on a preponderance of the evidence (more facts pointing toward executory contract versus lease). 3.  In the General Notes section, you mention the Trust being funded by all debt and contribution to the project being considered equity.  I'm unsure where this conclusion was reached.  This is not something I believe we fully discussed.  Whether of not it can be funded by all debt is something I will have to digest and get back to you about.   How much money is coming in through the investment trust?  From the diagram is looks like Enron ownership would be 30% instead of 12% if that piece is considered debt.  30% ownership does not necessarily lead to consolidation of Project Co. LLC. 4.  Two more items of interest that we did not discuss are our Affiliate Rules and FAS 98 Sale Leaseback.  Under our affiliate rules, if the capacity contract is deemed an executory contract and qualifies for MTM Accounting, we can only mark the portion of the contract we do not own.  So long as we maintain a 12% interest, we could probably only MTM 88% of the contract. However, there is debate in this area depending on our level of ""control"". Affiliate rules normally cover greater than 20% ownership investments unless we exert significant influence.  I believe we will be in control of the structure.  This will require more discussion later. -FAS 98 Sale Leaseback is not a good place to be but is something to keep in mind.  However, we can be proactive and work toward keeping ourselves out lease land and structure this as and executory contract. Per my request, please allow me sometime to digest this structure and consult with my colleagues.  I will be in touch. 
pls print.  thanks df 
pls print.  thanks. df 
Please see attached memo from Lou Soldano.  Thank you. 
pls print.  thanks. dF 
Rosemary, Please forward to the Hubbard meeting participants.  It may be good to remind them that it is best printed in color.  Also, if you make a change and save it before you print, there is a risk of the font change as we saw earlier. Thanks. Dave 
I'm OK with the language, but I want to make sure everyone is OK on the concept.  When we left this (unless there have been subsequent conversations with ECS that I wasn't a part of) we rejected Courtney's proposal to reduce our up front payment by $500,000.  He was to come back and propose a monthly quantity of gas to be paid over the term of the contract that would equate to the $500,000, but I don't recall that we agreed to it.  Did we intend to leave the issue open for more horsetrading on the amount of a haircut ECS should take or were we content to cover ECS at 100 cents on the dollar?  I am advised that the Btu number in the letter would allow ECS to get the full $500,000 of up front value. Rod and Steve--this one is up to you and I think its totally a question of whether we want to argue for some more $$ because I can't think of any other open issue with ECS on this or any other deals that we might be able to trade.    DF 
I'm in.  df Enron North America Corp. 
cool.  Thanks. DF Jim Talcott 05/11/2000 10:55 AM 
FYI. jrt 
Shoot.  Due to a conflict on Monday, I'm now scheduled to arrive in Houston on Tuesday at 10 am.  I return to Omaha at 8 PM  on Wednesday.  If there is anything on Mark's schedule consistent with those constraints, please let me know.  Thanks. DF Sandra Evans @ ECT on 05/11/2000 11:59:17 AM 
Mark has asked me to email you, to find out a suitable time to meet him. He is pretty booked up for both days, but asked, either 05/15/00 for dinner, or early 05/16/00 for breakfast. Can you let myself, or Sandra (who will be back tomorrow) know so that we can schedule it for him. Thank you Sharna 
I'm not aware of any legal or regulatory prohibition on our performing such a service for Citizens.  We can't actually buy the assets without a FERC certificate, but that's not what you are suggesting.   I can think of one example on NN in which Northwestern Pub. Service owns a some branch lines and we operate them.  Whether we do it as a separate legal entity or as TW is a strategy call that will depend on whether we want to keep the revenue stream out of the regulated pipeline entity.  Since TW doesn't have a rate case until 2006, there is probably no reason to put the contract in a separate entitiy until we get down the road a ways. Jeffery Fawcett 11/27/2000 04:00 PM 
Citizens Utilities is in the process of selling off all of its non-telecommunications businesses throughout North America.  One of their principal assets, Louisiana Gas Service (LGS) is one of those companies recently sold by Citizens.  LGS provided gas control and operations services to other non-LGS companies, including the Citizens Utilities LDC assets in Arizona.  With the consummation of the sale of LGS, Citizens has told me confidentially that they have no reasonable way of operating the interconnect, metering and 1.5 mile lateral pipeline facilities that interconnects TW and EPNG to the recently constructed Griffith Energy Power Plant.   Therefore, Citizens is looking to possibly have a 3rd party provide contract operations services under an operating agreement.  TW has been asked in writing by Citizens to consider making a proposal to operate these facilities. Does TW have an interest in providing contract operations services for Citizens?  In a related legal/regulatory question, does TW have the authority to conduct contract services on behalf of others, or would we have to perform these services as a separate legal entity?  If we do, does this present an affiliate problem for us if we ""share"" operating employees?  If these threshold questions can be accommodated, and TW is not only able to provide contract operations services for Citizens, but has a commercial desire to do so, what would we charge Citizens for this service?  Although it would appear at first blush to be a relatively simple matter to operate these facilities, remember that Citizens will be receiving gas (potentially) from both TW and EPNG simultaneously, presenting not only a challenge to balance pressure between the pipes, but to account for and reconcile deliveries and receipts from both pipes as well as the plant site. Although I'm the principal commercial representative for Citizens as regards transportation matters, I'm certainly willing to step out of the middle of this negotiation if Operations desires to handle it themselves.  I will be happy to provide you a copy of the brief 1/2 page letter Citizens sent to me on the 17th soliciting TW's interest.   Given the relatively short lead time until LGS operations is sold, Citizens has requested expedited consideration.  Please let me know how you want to proceed.  Call if you have any questions. 
Draft Accounting Memo 
What a tangled mess.  please call and splain what's going on here.  Thanks. DF 
pls put on my calendar.  thanks.df 
The whole thing also bugs me on an intuitive level, but I'm not sure it is a legal conflict of interest.  The Northern cases he is involved in are not really  ""GISB matters.""  There are certainly issues like the 637 compliance issue that involve GISB standards, however.  GISB is a freestanding entitity and his representation does not equate to representation of Enron so he could claim that his only client interest to worry about is GISB itself.  As long as he does not take positions in Northern cases that are inconsistent with what GISB wants, he's technically OK.  I suspect he'd argue that his work in the Northern docket is completely consistent with GISB's objective of achieving world domination.  This was my from the hip analysis when Jay first showed up in our cases, so I may have missed something.  For example, I'm not really clear on GISB's structure.  Can we argue that it is not a real stand alone entity but rather  a ""front"" for a cooperative group of companies that includes Enron?  If so, we might have a real conflict.  Thanks. DF Shelley Corman 05/09/2000 09:12 AM 
I was impressed that NDG filed revised comments in RM98-10 correcting their earlier mis-statements that GISB had ratified imbalance netting and trading standards.  The revised 2 page NDG filing states that GISB has not yet ratified the standards. Then I noticed who signed the pleading -- Jay Costan.  I guess he ought to know, as he is GISB general counsel! Does anyone else find this to be a conflict of interest for him to be GISB general counsel & then be counsel of a customer taking a position against a pipeline in a GISB matter.  I like Jay a lot, but I'm thinking of clarifying our understanding of his outside representation while he is GISB general counsel. 
Great--please sign me up!  Martha--I think my schedule is OK.  Please let me know if I need to move anything.  Thanks.  DF 
Roger that--lid on.  I'm in KC today.  What a lovely city.  I can see why you guys decided not to move.  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/08/2000 03:03:36 PM 
> > > No way!  Joining up with Russell???  That's interesting, I thought he had > ""hung 'em up"" as they say.  I want the full scoop.  DF > > > > > > > ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/08/2000 06:41:00 AM > 
> > > > > > Outstanding.  I'll  bring em and I'll call you guys in a week or so to > get > > the details nailed down.  Did you know that Bienawski (sp?), the > Sofregaz > > guy, is at Enron?  He's got a storage development group or some damn > > thing. > > I'm going to look him up and see what the heck he thinks he's doing.  DF > > > > > > > > > > ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/07/2000 10:52:17 AM > > 
> > > > > > I heard that NE Hub made it through the Oriskany without blowing > > anything > > > up.  Siggy must have been so pleased, and Penn Fuel and CNG so > > > disappointed!  Hey, I'm gonna be down the week of May 30-June 3 and > > would > > > like to get together with you guys.  What's going on that week?  Would > > > there be any reason, say, to bring golf clubs?  I hear that my much > > > ballyhooed former law partner David Hill might be down in Houston the > > same > > > time and I need to have a few beers on his expense account as well. > > Pat, > > > I > > > don't think you've met this guy but you need to, if for no other > reason > > > because he buys beers.   DF > > > > > > > > > 
pls print for Mike and Me.  thanks (Maria probably needs one to)  df 
Attached is the revised draft of the presentation for Stan's 1/2 day staff meeting tomorrow. 
Sorry--I'm not able to do it Monday afternoon.  Would breakfast on Tuesday be a viable alternative for Mark?  DF Sandra Evans @ ECT on 05/08/2000 12:18:16 PM 
Hello - please can the lunch with Frank and Mark be on the Monday 15th may -   12.30 to 1.30 Please can you confirm this time Many thanks - Sandra 
I'd like you to be involved in this from the legal side.  Shelley, please keep Lee in the loop on this matter. Gracias.  DF 
Michele Winckowski, Keith Petersen, James Harvey & I met last week to discuss compliance with Order 639, the new OCS reporting requirements.  NNG has 5 NGA-exempt facilities that are subject to the new reporting rules and will therefore be subject to Section 330.2.  While these facilities are NGA-exempt gathering, they continue to be included in NNG's transmission rates for rate purposes and remain eligible points for TI agreements and alternate firm. While these points are currently listed as available points and on the all-points exhibits of TI agreements, these points are not currently being used.  Michele and Keith have voiced concerns about having to perform separate OCS reports for these facilities. Section 330.2(a) requires a report that includes maps and a list of affiliates.   Section 330.2(b) requires a description of transactions - contract number, receipt/delivery point, rates etc. We discussed two possible compliance strategies.  First, NNG could seek a waiver, asking that since the facilities remain in transmission rates and valid points on jurisdictional contracts, NNG asks that it be allowed to include these points in its NGA reports.   Alternatively, NNG could file the maps and list of affiliates, but with regard to transactions, simply file a statement that these points, while listed as valid on all TI and FT agreements have not been used in some time. I have read and re-read Order 639 to understand the date an initial report would be due.   The rule sets out some of the most confusing effective date language that I have ever read. Generally, reports are due on the 1st of each quarter regarding the status of transactions on the first day of the previous quarter.  On Page 47, the Commission purports to give more time for the initial submissions.  Initial reports will be ""based on conditions on the first day of the full calendar quarter that begins after the effective date of thise rule, with initial reports due on the first business day after close of the quarter.""  What I make of this is that NNG's first report would be due October 1, 2000 (based on the quarter commencing July 1). We may want to considering seeking a waiver on or before July 1 (i.e. before the reporting period commences). 
Pls print up a full copy for Mike and I.  Thanks DF 
FYI.  Attached is a copy of the Project Why status presentation that will be made next week at Stan's May 9 staff meeting.  The purpose of the presentation was to present a list of brainstorming ideas from an Apr. 16 offsite session to GPG management & get some preliminary feedback on the kinds of ideas they would like to see proceed.  It was never meant to be a definitive plan for implementing those ideas.  I always envisioned the individual commercial groups picking up on which ideas they liked and wanted to implement & developing their own detailed plans for implementing. 
Attached is a current draft of the Project Why Presentation. The first set of slides includes the overview, an explanation that the presentation focueses in on only a few of the ideas, the electronic contracting presentation, the team 2 real time invoice vision, and team 3's auction thoughts. Next in the package would be team 3's knowledge call center concept Last but not least would be the Team 4 Internet/Intranet concept 
here'[s the second installment.  Thanks DF 
FYI.  Attached is a copy of the Project Why status presentation that will be made next week at Stan's May 9 staff meeting.  The purpose of the presentation was to present a list of brainstorming ideas from an Apr. 16 offsite session to GPG management & get some preliminary feedback on the kinds of ideas they would like to see proceed.  It was never meant to be a definitive plan for implementing those ideas.  I always envisioned the individual commercial groups picking up on which ideas they liked and wanted to implement & developing their own detailed plans for implementing. 
Attached is a current draft of the Project Why Presentation. The first set of slides includes the overview, an explanation that the presentation focueses in on only a few of the ideas, the electronic contracting presentation, the team 2 real time invoice vision, and team 3's auction thoughts. Next in the package would be team 3's knowledge call center concept Last but not least would be the Team 4 Internet/Intranet concept 
This morning I raised a concern regarding TW's sale of excess fuel at downstream points.  Here's the problem:  the tariff requires shippers to tender fuel to us at their receipt points.  With rare exceptions, those receipt points are not at the Cal. border.  Order 636 mandates that pipelines unbundle transportation from storage.  It also requires that pipelines that make gas sales do so at the furthest upstream point on their pipeline.  That latter requirement means that if a pipe buys gas at point ""x"", it should resell the gas at point ""x"" and not haul the gas to point ""y"" and then sell it there as a delivered (i.e., bundled) product.  My concern this morning was that our receipt of fuel gas in the San Juan or Permian and shipment of that gas to the Cal. border for sale arguably violates the unbundling requirement (because the Cal. border sale is a bundled combination of the sale and the transportation of the gas to the downstream location) or the ""furthest upstream point"" requirement or both.  Susan and my recollection was that when ECS wanted to receive the Gallup fuel deliveries at  a point other than Permian pool, we made them sign a transport contract to move the gas to where they wanted it.  I haven't confirmed that recollection but I am recalling that we told Courtney that we couldn't just move our fuel gas around whereever we wanted it--we needed someone to pay us to transport it. Irrespective of what we did with ECS, I think the following is the correct way to look at this situation:  We receive fuel at the shippers' receipt points.  Once we receive it, however, it is no longer ""fuel.""  It becomes line pack until it is burned.   Line pack moves around based on a lot of reasons, including shipper imbalances, etc.  It also, obviously, has to move to the compressors where it is burned as fuel.   It is our job to  manage line pack, and that means we buy line pack at locations where we are short, and sell it at locations where we are long.  If we end up long at the Cal. border from time to time, we should sell excess line pack to get line pack back to optimal levels.  I wouldn't want to get into a pattern where we are consistently buying line pack in the San Juan and Permian and selling line pack at the Cal. border, but  thats not what we are talking about here.  I can't think of anything in the tariff or otherwise that is inconsistent with this interpretation of our authority as operator of the pipeline.  MKM--OK 
Following is one of the documents I got on Friday.  the other will follow shortly.  I think Maria forwarded this already, but you ought to make sure she got it. Thanks. DF 
No way!  Joining up with Russell???  That's interesting, I thought he had ""hung 'em up"" as they say.  I want the full scoop.  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/08/2000 06:41:00 AM 
> > > Outstanding.  I'll  bring em and I'll call you guys in a week or so to get > the details nailed down.  Did you know that Bienawski (sp?), the Sofregaz > guy, is at Enron?  He's got a storage development group or some damn > thing. > I'm going to look him up and see what the heck he thinks he's doing.  DF > > > > > ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/07/2000 10:52:17 AM > 
> > > > I heard that NE Hub made it through the Oriskany without blowing > anything > > up.  Siggy must have been so pleased, and Penn Fuel and CNG so > > disappointed!  Hey, I'm gonna be down the week of May 30-June 3 and > would > > like to get together with you guys.  What's going on that week?  Would > > there be any reason, say, to bring golf clubs?  I hear that my much > > ballyhooed former law partner David Hill might be down in Houston the > same > > time and I need to have a few beers on his expense account as well. > Pat, > > I > > don't think you've met this guy but you need to, if for no other reason > > because he buys beers.   DF > > > 
Outstanding.  I'll  bring em and I'll call you guys in a week or so to get the details nailed down.  Did you know that Bienawski (sp?), the Sofregaz guy, is at Enron?  He's got a storage development group or some damn thing. I'm going to look him up and see what the heck he thinks he's doing.  DF ""Hooker, David"" <DHooker@UtiliCorp.com> on 05/07/2000 10:52:17 AM 
> > I heard that NE Hub made it through the Oriskany without blowing anything > up.  Siggy must have been so pleased, and Penn Fuel and CNG so > disappointed!  Hey, I'm gonna be down the week of May 30-June 3 and would > like to get together with you guys.  What's going on that week?  Would > there be any reason, say, to bring golf clubs?  I hear that my much > ballyhooed former law partner David Hill might be down in Houston the same > time and I need to have a few beers on his expense account as well.  Pat, > I > don't think you've met this guy but you need to, if for no other reason > because he buys beers.   DF 
I am troubled by your report.  Perhaps we need to threaten to revoke the anmesty and impose sanctions for noncompliance?  Or deputize someone mean to search file cabinets?  In all seriousness, would all of you please remind your troops of the importance of this effort, as I will with my folks.  Rick, thanks for the hard work  and perseverance on this.  DF Rick Dietz 05/05/2000 01:49 PM 
Honestly,  Drew Fossum told me ""If you build it, they will come"". Well, the ET&S Contract Administration Group has successfully reconfigured the contract file room in Houston to house any and all ET&S agreements in a secured environment.  But frankly, we are disappointed in the response that we have received to date.  We have only received a few documents from the Minneapolis Area Office and from Market Services in Houston.  Hopefully, the memo that I sent to you on April 7th was forwarded to your direct reports with instructions on providing any originals or copies of agreements created outside the CMS/CBS systems to the Contract Administration Group in Houston. If you would like me to forward this memo to you again, please let me know. We have established contacts for all locations across ET&S to receive and log any originals or copies of agreements/documents given to them by department employees before forwarding them to the Contract Administration Group in Houston.  The contacts, who have already been notified of their role in this process, are: Department   Contact Marketing (Omaha)  Laura Lantefield Marketing (Omaha)  Joni Bollinger Marketing (Omaha)  Janet Bowers Marketing (Mpls.)  Lisa Valley Marketing (Field)  Craig Buehler Legal    Martha Benner Regulatory   Barb Bischoff Operations   Judy Kudym/Mike Nelson Market Services (Houston) Patricia Steele If you have not already done so, please forward the April 7th memo (or this memo) to your staff showing your support for this project.  If you have any questions, please contact me at extension 35691 or Pat Steele at extension 37712 . Rick 
I heard that NE Hub made it through the Oriskany without blowing anything up.  Siggy must have been so pleased, and Penn Fuel and CNG so disappointed! Hey, I'm gonna be down the week of May 30-June 3 and would like to get together with you guys.  What's going on that week?  Would there be any reason, say, to bring golf clubs?  I hear that my much ballyhooed former law partner David Hill might be down in Houston the same time and I need to have a few beers on his expense account as well.  Pat, I don't think you've met 
I heard a great report the other day from David Hill that you guys made it through the Oriskany without any interesting pyrotechnics!  What a disappointment that must have been for Karol Lynn and CNG!  Sounds like a pretty boring operation up there, otherwise I might be tempted to drop by and see the show.  Also heard that the knuckleheads from Bath got thrown out of court on their antitrust suit.  Shit, all you needed to do all along was get rid of me and things started falling into place!!! Best wishes for continued success--and Siguaw, stay the hell out of trouble! 
So Haskell is trying to play good guy with us on Kansas Ad Valorem while he's trashing us at FEEBLE.  ENA is not one of the ""largest single shippers"" on Northern, at least in the market area.  They did that big negotiated rate deal with us, however for 300,000Dth, so I expect that is what Haskell is talking about.  They may in fact be the single biggest firm customer among the producer/marketer segment.  MKM and I ought to whup up on him down in KC next week on this issue. 
Great letter.  I'd even suggest that you have the Weird Herald folks out for a tour, but well-intentioned ideas like that always backfire with the media. DF 
I'll defer to your more expert addressees on this one.  Thanks.  DF LEE HUBER 05/04/2000 01:53 PM Sent by: Denise LaGesse 
Attached is a copy of the above-referenced promissory note.  Please review and provide me with any comments or changes. Rod - Does Transwestern need a board resolution approving this transaction? If so, I will prepare one. Lee 
OK.  DF Kathy Ringblom 05/04/2000 09:00 AM 
Between $600 and $700. 
fyi.  df 
Please review the attached draft letter addressing the implementation of the Sunflower flow control.  If you have any comments or questions, please call me.  Thanks! Karen 
""The Man"" was actually planning to be in Omaha those days, but I'm overdue on a journey south so I'll try to put something together.  I'll have my people (i.e., me) call your people (i.e., you) soon.  DF Mark Schroeder@ECT 05/04/2000 07:18 AM 
the ""man"" will be in Houston, arriving 13th (Saturday) May, and leaving in the p.m. on Tuesday, 16 May.  Already booked for dinner on Sunday the 14th, but if business brings you to town (Drew) or keeps you in town (Frank) let's do a lunch.  Have your people call my people.   mcs 
Outstanding!!  Its great to see that the organization recognizes real talent when it sees it!  DF 
pls print with cover memo--for me and maria.  thanks. DF 
Thanks Lou--looks good.  Given the amount of $$ we've spent the last 2 years on this I hope we can hold them to this deal.  DF 05/03/2000 04:18 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 05/03/2000 04:18 PM 05/03/2000 04:18 PM 
drew - fyi.... 
Mike - just a few suggestions - very nicely done! 
My buddy in DC found the NE Hub testimony and is fedxing it.  If you can get 
More stuff on Gallup.  Thanks.DF 
Please call when you've reviewed this.  Thanks. DF 
FYI 
The suction strainer was removed last night.  The piping spool was=20 reinstalled without the major compressor alignment problems that were=20 expected.  This significantly reduced the downtime necessary for the remova= l=20 of the suction strainer. No major foreign materials were found in the strainer.  Some small weld bea= ds=20 were found.  There were some signs that the strainer may have been vibratin= g. Several compressor test runs were made early this AM to measure the vibrati= on=20 levels without the suction strainer.  The high frequency vibration was=20 reduced to safe levels.  There is no longer any risk to the unit piping=20 integrity. The compressor bearing vibration did not decrease due to the removal of the= =20 strainer.  Rolls will continue to assess the collected vibration data to=20 determine the cause of the high drive end bearing vibration and construct a= =20 game plan. The station once again became available for service around 4 AM.  The=20 compressor may or may not be run dependent on need.  Gallup Ops and Gas=20 Control are in close contact. The station will be manned if the compressor is running due to Gas Control= =20 being unable to send remote setpoints to the station controller.  The probl= em=20 stems from OPTO-22 not supporting the particular Modbus function required t= o=20 send setpoints.  This is a =01+lack of functionality=01, in the new LCM4 ve= rsion=20 controllers/software utilized on the Gallup Project. =20 EECC has been in contact with OPTO-22 to determine the time table for=20 resolving this problem.  EECC, TW Ops are working on a temporary fix to=20 enable Gas Control to send remote setpoints to Gallup.  Gas Control is=20 currently able to monitor data from Gallup. Some instrumentation will be replaced today that failed due to the high=20 vibration over the fast few days. Final tuning of the station control loops and surge control will be also be= =20 conducted today. James Pfeffer 
I'd like to get a tape to show to the law dept.  Thanks.  DF Mike McGowan 05/02/2000 02:53 PM 
As you are aware, next week we will hold employee meetings in  Houston and Omaha.   The focus of these meetings is to have Dave Neubauer and Steve Harris  give their commercial updates.  We intend to have both Dave and Steve give their presentations from last week's KeyEx customer meeting plus some updates as to current  revenue levels etc. We do not intend to show the KeyEx videotapes at these  employee meetings. However, we will make available to each of you, a copy of the  meeting videotape to share with your employees at satff meetings or to let them review it as time permits. I will assume one copy is sufficient unless I hear otherwise.  Mike Nelson, I plan to get at least 4 copies for you unless you need more for  rotation throughout the field offices. Please let me know! 
OUTSTANDING!  I may use it word for word!  Thanks--I'll call him shortly and let you know how it goes.  DF Jim Talcott 05/02/2000 02:27 PM 
Hey, the day's slippping away and I remember how yesterday went.  (Remember Kimball?)  I have a meeting with MKM and FX from 3-5 on the May 9 meeting in KC, so here are my thoughts on the call to Foglar: ""Hey Murray, this is Drew.  We received the Chisos complaint and I thought I'd get ahold of you and see if there is any appetite at Duke to sit down and discuss resolving these issues in lieu of spending a lot of money on motions in Pecos County""   Grunt.  ""I am curious whether the pleading is evidence that Duke/Chisos are not interested in resolving this outside the courts, or is it just a natural reaction to our letter;  a move to bring Northern to the table?""  Grunt.  ""Is Chisos serious about litigating this?""  Grunt. ""If Northern and Duke were to get together in the next 3 weeks, do you think it would make sense for Chisos to also attend?  Who do you think Duke would send?""  Grunt.  ""Do you think Chisos would hold off on serving the petition 
Thanks for the memo.  Very informative, especially about the ""whining of indeterrmined origin. . . ""  You were' nt talking about a coworker were you? 
any word on the supreme court ruling?  I figure that ought to add $5 to the 
Great job.  I'll grab you and Susan Mon. AM to discuss this and her thoughts.  DF Kathy Ringblom 11/21/2000 04:55 PM 
Drew, I will try to summarize the research I did today on the referenced subject.  The bottom line is that I did not find any California statutes that appeare to be applicable to what we're doing.  I looked at California's General Business Regulations, Unfair Trade Practices statute, the Public Utilities Code, an ALR annotation that discussed cases in which courts have reviewed acts or practices prohibited by state deceptive trade practice and consumer protection statutes, and I searched case law and statutes using terms such as gouging, unconscionable, pricing practices, etc.  The California Unfair Practices Act is ""... not a price-fixing statute, but seeks to regulate conduct of those engaged in business in order to eliminate such unfair practices as price discrimination indulged in for purpose of injuring competitors or destroying competition.  It does not make every difference in price unlawful, but only those differences that cannot be justified after proper allowance has been made for differences in grade, quality, quantity or cost of transportation.""   It appears that the statutes and cases that are anywhere close to what we're looking for deal with protection of the ultimate consumer and not sophisticated energy companies. I did find a price gouging statute in New York that states that its purpose is to prohibit conduct that could occur during periods of abnormal disruption of the market caused by strikes, power failures, severe shortages or other extraordinary adverse circumstances when parties have taken unfair advangage of consumers by charging grossly excessive prices for essential goods and services.  I reviewed two cases, People v. Two Wheel Corp. and State of New York v. Strong Oil Company, that deal with a company that sold portable electric generators at unconscionably excessive prices during a power failure caused by a hurricane and a company that sold home heating fuel at an unconscionably excessive price during a period of abnormal disruption of the market, respectively.  (The Strong Oil case discussed Federal pre-emption of state law due to the Federal Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act.)  I will put copies of these cases as well as some of the other documents mentioned above in your in-box in case you want to review them. I looked briefly at Texas law but didn't see anything.  I obviously didn't get every state covered.  If you want me to look further, please let me know. 
Tell me how much.  Thanks.  DF Kathy Ringblom 05/02/2000 01:51 PM 
Drew, David's printer croaked and I guess they don't have any spare ones sitting around so if we want him to have one, we have to order and pay for it.  He does quite a bit of printing and it ties up Ann's machine if he uses hers.  Is it ok to order him a printer? 
Looks good to me.  Thanks. DF 
???  could you give me a call and suggest what to do-- I don't remember that we ran any ads.  Thanks. DF 
Mr. Fossum, Just today I discovered that Enron NNG recently advertised an attorney job vacancy in Omaha.  My wife and I are native ""Omahans"" and wish to return to the area.  Out of hope that you have not yet filled the position, I am attaching a cover letter and a resume for your consideration. Thank you for any consideration you might extend me. Wayne Weight 842 Chatsworth Drive Accokeek, MD 20607-2033 Home: wvweight@erols.com 301-292-6876 Work/FDIC: wweight@fdic.gov 202-898-7238 - EnronCovLet.doc - EnronRes4-25-00.doc 
Wow.  Pretty interesting info.  I'm trying to think of a ""plan B"" approach, but without ENA (and their turbines) I'm haviang a hard time coming up with one.  Steve, I'll talk to you in Tucson on this.  Thanks.  DF Steven Harris 04/25/2000 09:19 AM 
I spoke to Frank Vickers who is responsible for ENA's power generation projects for the Western half of the United States. We discussed the opportunities for a generation project in the Albuquerque region and he offered the following observations. First, he indicated ENA has evaluated numerous projects in that area including participation in the Cobisa project. They always come to the same conclusion which is that the project economics become non-workable due power grid constraints and the inability to negotiate a long-term wheeling arrangement with PNM. He felt like the only reason Cobisa could go forward was due to PNM being the purchaser of power from the project. We talked about lower the delivered cost of gas to the facility through a ""zero return"" pipeline but in the end what the generation facility would have to compete with is power from and around Palo Verde. He is very familiar with the ENA model (in fact he could calculate various electric costs immediately just based on some parameters I mentioned to him over the phone). In the end, he felt like ENA would not want to participate because the risk of having to sell the excess power at a competitive rate was just too great given the cost to get it to a market. We will continue to give the Pueblo project a final look by talking to Plains and Four Corners but without the baseload generation the pipeline prospects look pretty dismal. 
Mike, I hadn't seen your email when we talked today.  I'm fine with whatever approach you want to take with the documents.  I'll call in for the meeting with Stan tomorrow.  I have the phone number.  Sorry we got cut off on the MOPS issue today.  I'm a little communication impaired up here, but I'll call on Wed. or Thur. on MOPS.  in the mean time, please grab whoever you need from my group to get the thinking underway on the new strategy.  Thanks.  DF Michael Moran 04/24/2000 01:22 PM 
These look fine to me. My sense is that Stan will go over Northern's offer in the initial phone call with Ted Davis; therefore it may make sense to just combine the two for Stan's purpose but keep the 2nd one seperate as the basis for a document to fax to Davis after the phone call. 
I agree.  This is not a big enough dollar issue for them to make a huge stink, is it?  If it is, can't we match them stink for stink with all the imbalance penalties we have forgiven in the past?  DF 
pls print.  thanks df 
Drew:  I've reviewed the nature of this deal with John and Dave.  Can you please review the legalese (its patterned after the 2/10 letters we sent.)  I need to send off today.  Thanks 
Mike, here are two draft sets of talking points covering Stan's initial phone call with Ted Davis to discuss whether a settlement meeting would be useful and the subsequent settlement meeting itself.  Please give me any comments you have and I'll send to Stan or have available to hand to him at our meeting, which I understand is scheduled for 9 am on Tuesday.  I'll  be calling in from Arizona.  Note there is at least one issue we ought to think about a bit more--whether to have Stan imply there may be other goodies available other than the Hobbs Line.  I'm inclined to avoid implying that, but to have Stan primed to pull out additional goodies if necessary. I have not yet completed a bullet point outline of the settlement proposal for Stan to send to Davis after Stan and he meet.  As things currently stand it would basically be identical to the second sheet of talking points.   I would prefer to finalize that document after we meet with Stan, both to minimize the paper in front of him at the Tuesday meeting and to allow the Davis outline to be tailored to reflect the strategy we arrive at with Stan (I think I'm safe in assuming we will tinker with the strategy a bit on Tuesday morning).  If we do modify the strategy, I'll also modify the talking points. Britt and Barrett, I wanted you to know the timetable in part because, if Stan decides to go forward,  we need to send Barrett's suggested letter to Jad verifying continued application of the settlement privilege to Stan and Ted's discussions.   I intend to call you after the Stan meeting to advise. Just in case you don't hear from me by late morning Tuesday, please give Mike a call to confirm whether to send the letter.  I may have fallen into the Grand Canyon or been bitten by a hila monster. 
pls print.  thanks df 
- C.DTF 
Great--please let me know how it goes.  I'm out next wk but will check voice mails.  Also, why does my email down below say ""Enron Energy Services?""  My computer has apparently transferred me to EES.  I need a vacation.  DF Kevin Hyatt 04/20/2000 04:10 PM 
Lorraine and I are meeting Steve Walton on Mon a.m. Enron Energy Services 
I had an interesting conversation with Mark Courtney today, this time about something that doesn't cost us money.  He has gained a good bit of experience on transmission availability in NW New Mexico from the Gallup electric contract negotiation.  His take on transmission constraints is consistent with what Kevin and I had suspected:  Alb. is a load pocket and the prevailing flow is west to east into Alb.  Constraints only affect west to east flows and a generator in Alb. could always move power to four corners by displacement.  Courtney has worked with an ENA transmission guy named Steve Walton who apparently has more experience with the 230Kv transmission lines that had the problem that led to the recent blackouts in Alb.  If we are not talking to him already, he would be another guy worth talking to. 
Outstanding!!!  Still colder than shit up here--what are you guys even thinking on moving up here????  I'll call you to check out the details later this week.  Thanks. DF ""Hooker, David"" <dhooker@caes.net> on 11/22/2000 09:47:43 AM 
Hey, got my facts together on our Houston gig--we'll be down Sat. Dec. 2 through mon the 4th.  Any chance we could swing by on Sunday and see  you guys?  DF 
I'd be happy to talk to either of you about NNG's experience or work I did in my former life for my old client Market Hub Partners on requests for market based rates for their Egan Louisiana, Moss Bluff, Texas and Tioga Pennsylvania projects. 
Glad to help--concocting market based rates for storage facilities that probably don't deserve them is one of the few things I know how to do.  DF Shelley Corman 04/20/2000 12:32 PM 
ENA is pursuing a gas storage project.  One assumption of their project development is the ability to attain market-based pricing for the facility. Tom Shelton called  looking for a primer on how to apply for market-based rates.   I gave him the 10,000 ft story of how any regulated entity can apply for market-based rates under the Alternatives to Traditional Ratemaking policy statement, but that to date only storage facilities have been successful in willing market-based rate treatment.  I think his client is looking for more of a procedural look at what needs to be done.  Do you care if I send  them  a copy of the market-based storage testimony from the last NNG rate case?    Sorry, but I mentioned that you forged market based storage services for Market Hub Partners in your former life.  So, don't be surprised if you hear from Tom Shelton or his client John Allario. 
I had an interesting conversation with Mark Courtney today, this time about something that doesn't cost us money.  He has gained a good bit of experience on transmission availability in NW New Mexico from the Gallup electric contract negotiation.  His take on transmission constraints is consistent with what Kevin and I had suspected:  Alb. is a load pocket and the prevailing flow is west to east into Alb.  Constraints only affect west to east flows and a generator in Alb. could always move power to four corners by displacement.  Courtney has worked with an ENA transmission guy named Steve Walton who apparently has more experience with the 230Kv transmission lines that had the problem that led to the recent blackouts in Alb.  If we are not 
Here's a weird one.  Could we structure the Pueblo pipeline project with the following characteristics: 1.  The lateral from TW's mainline to Albeq. is wholly TW owned (i.e., no joint venture with Langley); 2.  The lateral  is 100% debt financed (i.e., it is expected to cost about $20 million, which TW would borrow in a project financing, secured by the revenue stream under the firm contract for service on the new lateral); 3.  TW files for a 7(c) certificate, seeking an incremental rate for service on the new lateral;  Any service on the TW mainline will be subject to TW's existing rates; 4.  TW designs the max. incremental rate based on normal cap. structure, deprec., O&M, allocations, etc. 5.  TW has one contract for 40,000/day, for 10 years for service on the lateral; 6.   The rate for that one customer is a negotiated rate that is based on an alternative ratemaking study under which the customer pays enough $$ to cover debt service on the project financing, incremental deprec., O&M, A&G, etc. No allocated costs or any other costs related to TW's preexisting facilities are included in the negotiated rate. 7.  TW is entirely at risk for cost recovery, but the one contract covers all actual costs, except return and taxes on the new line. Basically, the one contract locks in a floor of break even cash flow.  If TW fails to lock up any additional customers there will never be any ""taxable income"" for the line since debt servicing costs and other expenses completely eat up the revenue under the one big contract.  Therefore, there will never be any return or taxes related to the new line, unless TW locks up additional contracts. 8.  Any additional contracts TW locks up will generate TW's upside for the project. The question is can we do this?  Will FERC let us build it?  Will FERC let us oversize the pipeline significantly larger than the 40,000/day that the one big firm customer needs?   I'm sure I've left out important facts, so I'll try to grab you tomorrow to discuss. The overall objective is to create the ""leanest"" possible initial cost structure for the pipeline, and therefore for the Langley power plant, consistent with TW being able to get the new pipeline built.  I.e., lets get the pipe built and help the power plant get to a cheap enough elec. rate that they can get their big contract with the govt.  and economically sell surplus off-peak power onto the grid.  Even if the new incremental rate for service on the lateral is a break even rate, TW's upside comes from incremental throughput from the Permian to the new lateral, at a rate of $___/MMBtu, and from any additional bypass load we can pick up from PNM (it looks like TW's rates off of the new line will beat PNM's industrial rates). I appreciate your input on this.  DF 
Good job on the draft.  My comments are redlined on the attached doc.  Lets get it on file ASAPPDQ.  Thanks.  DF 
pls print with cover memo.  thanks. df 
Please see the attached. 
I will be particularly interested in an update on the ""Topock Decontamination"" item on the agenda.  Give me a break.  DF 04/18/2000 04:29 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 04/18/2000 04:29 PM 04/18/2000 04:29 PM 
fyi.. i'll give you the details on friday... 
Tino called today to report on their meetings with DOE last week.  Tino, Dennis Langley, and their outside lawyer Jim Slattery met with Bill Richardson and DOE staff to discuss the ""sole source"" procurement approach to DOE's obtaining an alternative power supplier for Kirtland AFB and Sandia. Tino reports that Richardson signed off on the sole source approach, subject only to DOE review of the final contract to assure its consistency with the public interest.  Tino believes that the combination of significant Native American involvement in the overall deal structure along with a power price 
Corporate schizophrenia.  Weird.   DF 
I understand that you guys have retained Holland and Hart to give us another set of eyes on the Navajo issues.  For future reference, I have finally hooked up with the South Dakota firm I mentioned and was favorably impressed with their experience in similar matters.  Don Schultz and a couple of his partners have substantial litigation experience both for and against the S.D. tribes (Ogalla Sioux, etc.) on federal jurisdictional issues.  One of Don's partners is general counsel of the Rushmore Electric Cooperative in Western South Dakota and has had dealings with the tribes on right of way issues for years.   They have cleared conflicts, and are available  if we ever need a third opinion or if we get into a spat with the tribes elsewhere.  Sorry it 
Excellent reading of the legal authority issues as well as the political winds.  I think your sense of the likelihood of trouble is accurate.  I also agree with your implicit premise that if FERC or anyone else wanted to make trouble regarding our negotiated rate deals, the easiest approach, and the most direct one, is to challenge the deals as unjust and unreasonable under 
As to your question about what's going on in California, I've done some reading and here are my thoughts. The Nov. 1 FERC order in Docket No. EL00-95-000, in which the Commission ordered a $150/MWh price cap (among other things), was predicated on the Commission's authority under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act. Specifically, the FPA provides that if the Commission finds that ""any rate, charge or classification for jurisdictional services, or any rule, regulation, practice or contract affecting such rate, charge or classification"" is unjust or unreasonable, the Commission shall determine the just and reasonable rate, charge, classification, rule, regulation, practice, or contract that should be in effect.  The Commission recognized that certain areas of the flawed California market are not within its jurisdiction, but ""fixed"" the areas within its jurisdiction.   Apparently the California governor agrees with me that the Commission's jurisdiction in the area of wholesale electricity prices is questionable... In any event, if the Commission wanted to open a proceeding to investigate the justness and reasonableness of negotiated gas transportation rates, its authority to do so would be much clearer.  The Natural Gas Act expressly authorizes FERC to declare unlawful any transportation rate that is not just and reasonable.  ""Just and reasonable"" has been interpreted in many different contexts and the Commission has significant discretion over what it means. As we all know too well, the Commission sometimes acts unpredictably. However, my feeling is that it will probably take more than 2 or 3 above-max-rate contracts to motivate the FERC to act to declare a negotiated rate deal, struck within a pipeline's tariff authority, to be unjust and unreasonable.  The California proceeding was initiated after entire communities of individual consumers suffered 200-300% increases in their electricity bills.  The prices for electricity in California were outrageous across the board and affected everyone in the state.  By contrast, TW's transport rates for its short-term deals are far removed from end user prices and the practice of negotiating higher than max rate deals is probably not widespread enough for anyone to notice.  It is far from being a consumer issue, and besides, the elections are over.  However, as you and I have already discussed, we must be wary of parties like Dynegy that do notice just about everything and who might try to draw it to FERC's attention.  We do need to watch to see whether other pipelines serving California are doing the same types of deals.  Kathy, why don't you and I discuss a system of monitoring the contract information postings of El Paso, Kern, PGT/NW.  Drew, obviously I've only scratched the surface here so let's talk if you want a more in-depth report. 
That is by far the best line of the day!!  Unconscionability may be the thing I'm remembering , but I think there is some more specific law related to market dislocations--i.e., the Hurricane example.  Its sort of a twist on market power law--i.e., if the fates hand you short term market power, you better not use it.  DF Susan Scott 11/21/2000 10:08 AM 
I know there is some case law out there on contracts being voided because they are ""unconscionable.""  There are several examples in consumer law and employment law, in which one contracting party is a corporation and the other is a West Palm Beach voter.  However, if my memory serves me correctly, none of them involve contracts between 2 sophisticated business entities such as TW and Sempra or PG&E.  Absent evidence of fraud, courts uphold bargains struck at arms length. Kathy, I'd be happy to take the oars on this but if you've already done some looking, please let me know if you've found anything. 
Stuck on the phone so I thought I'd email you.  Stan has asked Mike Moran if TW has any potential exposure on the high value transport deals under ""anti gouging"" statutes or common law.  You know, the laws that say you can't charge $100 per sheet of plywood during a hurricane or $50 for a bucket of water during a drought.  I think we need to research two things: 1.  are there any such laws applicable to our business?  (Cal. state law would probably be the best place to start) 2.  could the political/regulatory fight in Cal about power and gas prices ever expand all the way to our transport pricing?  I.e., if the CPUC whacks the power sellers for taking unfair advantage of their monopoly power, its not a big leap for the CPUC or FERC or even U.S. congress to whack gas sellers for jacking prices up to $14/MMBtu, as happened on Friday.  If that happens, its just another small jump to whack us for charging $1 for transport, or so the logic goes.  I'd like to hear preliminary views by 8:30 Monday am so I can talk to Mike before Stan's staff meeting (no written memo necessary).  Based on that prelim. research, we can decide what else need s to be done.  Thanks df 
I think I am OK.  DF 
How does Friday look for scheduling this meeting?  Is anyone planning to be in the office?  If so, let me know what time will work for scheduling it.  If not, perhaps Monday? Jan for Lou Soldano 
I think I got my address book fixed and the Harris pro blem is solved 
I don't think the new policy helps us, but it would help an intrastate pipeline that wanted to interconnect with us.  DF 04/14/2000 04:31 PM Tony Pryor Tony Pryor Tony Pryor 04/14/2000 04:31 PM 04/14/2000 04:31 PM 
Lou, I will be in Omaha on Tuesday but I think I can be available to pow-wow at some point on Tue afternoon after a scheduled meeing in the Omaha office from 1 to 3.  I'm also available on Wed. morning from Omaha.................Tony 04/13/2000 05:01 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 04/13/2000 05:01 PM 04/13/2000 05:01 PM 
I assume this does nothing for our intrastate situation??? we probably ought to circle back together sometime next week to see where we are.  Eric, Tony and I will be in a data room tomorrow.  I wander off to see the Navajos on Monday and will not be back until late morning Tuesday. Since I'm going to spend a fun filled Wednesday and Thursday with our PG&E friends - What does Tuesday afternoon look like???? Jan - can you follow up with everyone??  thx 
Please read the attached memo regarding the significant shift in the Commission's policy.   The policy sets out new interconnection criteria, but announces that a pipeline may not deny an interconnection on economic grounds. 
Not yet--I'll try this wkend.  thanks. DF 
Thanks Vig--this is very helpful as I've gotten a bit out of the loop over the last several weeks.   I don't know exactly what the reason was for striking this from our agenda for tomorrow, but it might be for the better since we can now schedule a prefiling devoted exclusively to this filing. Lets talk next wk on where we stand with Hanover and where FERC's general policy on outsourcing is going.  That KN Wattenberg order is excellent for us on the jurisdictional issue, so maybe the longer we wait the better the law will get for us.  DF Donald Vignaroli   04/12/2000 04:14 PM 
Notwithstanding the fact that the Monetization project may not be discussed at your meeting with FERC tomorrow, attached FYI and ""just-in-case"" is a memo summarizing the proposal.  (I'll drop hard copies off at your respective mail drops.) 
Mike Moran has informed me that the FTC and U.S. DOJ, as part of their review of the El Paso-Coastal merger, have decided to take a close look at the merger's possible impact on competition in the Chicago-Wisconsin market.  In this regard, those agencies need to set up a conference call in the next two weeks to discuss that issue with experts on that market from Border and Northern.  This will not be an on-the-record deposition.  It will be a conf. call and what I expect to be an  informal question and answer session on what we know.   Representatives of the Wisconsin and Illinois Attorney General's office (or whatever agency it is in those states that deals with antitrust issues) will be on the phone as they are working with the Feds on the merger.  I think either one of you guys, with appropriate supervision, would do a fine job.  Please let me and Mike know who gets the black bean and what 
pls print.  thanks df 
Regulations Under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Governing the Movement of Natural Gas on Facilities on the Outer Continental Shelf, RM99-5 The final rule is attached - 84 pages Executive Summary The Final Rule was issued April 10, 2000 and becomes effective 30 days after publication in the Federal Register. The purpose of the final rule is to establish a data base as a foundation for identifying discrimination with OCS gas service providers.  The reporting will include affiliations and conditions of service.  This is a procedural rule - reporting only.  The rule only applies to gas pipelines - FERC found transportation for oil pipelines to be just and reasonable.  The Commission is acting in part as a response to the ruling in Sea Robin in which the court directed FERC to reconsider the manner in which it applied its primary function test to Sea Robin's predominantly offshore system. NOPR was issued on June 30, 1999.  The Commission believes that the new OCSLA reporting requirements mirror certain existing NGA reporting requirements. Salient points of the final rule are: Exemptions Service providers that confine their operations to moving their own gas or that of a single shipper are exempt from reporting; add new section 330.0(a)(1) and (2)   Note:  reporting exemption turns on identity of service provider and its shippers - not type of service provided. Gas service providers that are regulated by FERC under NGA are exempt from OCSLA reporting; add new section (330.3(a)(4) Exempts lines that feed into a facility where gas is first collected, separated, dehydrated or processed from OCSLA reporting requirements; add new section 330.3(a)(3). Reporting Requirements If an NGA-regulated company's system includes OCS facilities that are not subject to NGA (gathering/production lines), the company must submit an OCSLA report covering its non-NGA facilities Reclassified facilities will no longer be subject to NGA reporting requirements but will be subject to OCSLA requirements. (Shippers  no longer have protection against the exercise of market power afforded by the NGA). Service provider must list all of its affiliates defined as engaged in the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, marketing, consumption or sale of gas need be identified in the report; new section 330.2(a)(6) Reporting Updates restricted to four times per year. Reports will be based on conditions on the first day of the first full calendar quarter that begins after the effective date of this rule; reports due on the first business day after the close of the quarter.  Providers will have more than one full quarter in which to prepare their initial OSCLA report Providers will be required to submit a description of their operations as they stand on the first day of each calendar quarter, e.g. describing the provider's status on one particular day; report due on first business day of the subsequent quarter (e.g. filing due April 1 will describe operations as they stood on January 1).  If the operations are identical on the first and last days of any given quarter, provider need not submit an update the following quarter Not necessary to file contracts but must provide table of shippers and services; new section 330.2(b) Retaining requirement for alternative reporting for OCS companies who do not provide service under formal contracts, must provide information sufficient to derive rates charged and conditions applicable for service between two points; new section 330.2(b)(9) OCSLA Reporting Form available via Internet  http://www.ferc.fed.us or the public reference room Providers new to provisions have 90 days to prepare and submit OCSLA report (NOPR had stipulated 60 days). 
pls print.  thanks. DF 
Please read the attached memo regarding the significant shift in the Commission's policy.   The policy sets out new interconnection criteria, but announces that a pipeline may not deny an interconnection on economic grounds. 
This is too cool to be believed.  Obviously, I'm not getting much accomplished at work today.  Adios, DF 
Given the numbers we got from Mark Baldwin, is this where we are?: 1.  The overall economics of the pipeline project have to be supported almost entirely by the new power plant.  At most, we could assume maybe 5,000-10,000/day of gas load from industrials near the airport, and another X,000 from Kirtland's gas load.   This assumed load will ramp up over several years (or longer depending on how long these folks existing contracts are) and not be available immediately. 2.  We know the bogey for pricing the electric contract for DOE.  Its probably $0.042/KWh, less 15-20% to make it attractive, or maybe $0.056, less 15-20%.  Either way, a low rate. 3.  We now know the best case scenario for cost on the pipeline--about $17 mm in the 16"" configuration, without the Isleta lateral or the lateral over to the power plant.  Maybe about $20mm total? 4.  We don't have absolutely reliable info on electric transmission constraints from the proposed plant to Palo Verde, so I'd suggest that for now we just assume that we would be unconstrained on power sales at Palo Verde.  Are there alternative liquid markets available that might have better pricing?  Ercot?  Pub. Serv. Colorado? 5.  I'm not entirely sure how you guys are looking at the overall economics, but to my non-business guy mind, the following scenarios (or something similar) stick out as the key benchmarks that will decide whether the project makes sense: A.  Worst Case: Assume we build a 75 mw power plant (i.e., assume no extra power to sell in spot market) and assume we get the Kirtland gas load but no additional gas load from the customers Baldwin talked to .  If the rate for the gas line is the minimum rate that Enron could live with (based on our internal hurdle rates) can we hit the DOE target power price and have any $$$ left over?  I suspect this scenario is upside down.  Should we look at two alternative configurations for the power plant--combined cycle and simple cycle? B.  Mid Case: Assume we size the power plant at 150mw (or some similar size based on a turbine configuration that makes sense) and that we sell the surplus power at Palo Verde prices less Albequerque-Palo Verde transmission costs.  Again, assume no incremental gas load except Kirtland.  If the gas pipeline rate is set at the minimum rate Enron can live with, does the power plant make enough $$$ to make the project work? C.  Wildly Optimistic Case: Same as mid-case, except add Baldwin's gas load and start ramping in some estimated amount of additional gas load when NM gas restructuring kicks in in 2003 (did I get the year right?).   Also, start ramping in some estimated amount of high priced retail power sales to back out the Palo Verde spot sales at whatever year NM retail electric restructuring is expected to kick in.  (also 2003, I think).  With optimistic assumptions like this, does it make sense? Tino suggested a meeting to talk economics in detail around the first of May.  Ideally, we'll have a feel for the above relationships, and the transmission constraint situation, by then.  Thanks.  DF 
Looks good--I'm faxing some minor comments.  Give George my best!  DF Jeffery Fawcett 11/21/2000 01:17 PM 
Attached for your review and comment is a broad outline of a rate proposal to Caithness for the construction and operation of the 40-mile lateral to the Big Sandy project.  This non-binding proposal was requested by Caithness' consultant, George Briden, as a starting point for modeling the economics of the project's gas supply and a basis for further discussions aimed at designing an appropriate deal structure.  For your information, James Centilli calculated the transport rate based on the (+/- 30%) $20.33MM cost estimate with a ten-year (contract) amortization. I plan to put this in the mail by the close of business tomorrow.  If you have any suggestions, please let me hear from you by mid-day.   Thanks. 
Unless we have bought something that I'm not aware of, I don't believe TW or NN has any assets or operations in Louisiana and therefore should not be subject to the referenced tax.  As far as other jurisdictions, I don't expect that we'd have a problem with in-kind payment as an additional payment option.  On TW, which has no fuel tracker, in kind tax payment probably wouldn't help us.  Northern does have a fuel tracker, however, and might avoid adverse earnings impact from tax volatility if we could pay those taxes in kind and stick them in the tracker.  We probably couldn't do that until the next rate case, however, because all current taxes are built into our base rates at some representative level. Rod Hayslett 04/10/2000 01:00 PM 
What do you all think of this one? 
There is a proposal concerning paying the Louisiana Use (Sales) Tax by using in-kind rather than paying cash.  Please see the attached memo below giving details and asking for your comments: -jtm 
pls print.  thanks df 
FYI 
Please find attached an explanation of how the $2.8M was negotiated from Dave Foti and myself.  The other file attached is the calculations per the contracts we executed with ESC and the earnings impact, if we agree with ESC new one time payment. The economic benefit  to be derived from this change may or may not be achieved, because it is dependent on ESC and TW ability to avoid the peak demand  charge.  ESC has an obligation in the contract to assist TW in developing a system to monitor and avoid the peak demand charge.  If ESC receives this benefit in  the one time payment, TW may lose any leverage we have.  The demand payment includes full payment of these peak demand charges with ESC rebating the cost on a monthly basis, if these charges are avoided. If we need to develop our negotiating strategy before we meet with ESC on Wednesday, please advise. Dave Foti & James Centilli 
Re: your comment on this today.  Unbelievable!!!  What a ton of _____.  Lets talk.  DF )by the way, whats a PAJE?  DF 
Look!  Foti's computer also confuses the Evil and Good Steves!  DF 
FYI 
I believe this is for you. Regards, Steve 
Rod, Steve, & James: In rough terms, this is what I understand ECS' logic to be - The $3.35 per KW for transmission demand charge was assumed not to be avoidable and have a 5000 KW minimum when ET&S and ECS agreed on the $2.8MM one time payment. ECS says that they have negotiated to make the transmission demand charge avoidable with no minimum. $3.35 * 10,000HP / 1.341 = $25k $25k discounted 10 years = $1.9MM 25% of 1.9MM = approx. $500k Original one time payment = $2.8MM less $0.5MM = $2.3MM (the new payment ECS wants to give ET&S) ECS contends that Fastuca agreed to a 25% sharing of benefits received from the avoidable demand.  My recollection is that the 25% was used as a benchmark to estimate ECS' fee but was never established as a firm rule. ECS is supposed to provide us with their own written explanation for the $500k reduction.  They are also supposed to send us the ""re-negotiated"" rate schedule 21 that shows the transmission demand charge becoming avoidable. In any event, whether it is reasonable or not that ECS is due the $500k, it is reasonable to expect that ET&S would have been notified of this change in a more timely manner. Dave Foti x.31978 
pls print--I'm sending you several docs on ECS--please give me in one stack. DF 
FYI, for our meeting. 
We did not document the up front payments, because of Regulatory concerns. FERC requested copies of the contracts that defined the payment for electricity.  The $500k was negotiated in a meeting with George Fastuca and Mark Courtney, where Mark agreed to share his profit.  We had worked very closely with them to assure the officer group, how this project compared to doing it with out ESC.  They never advised Dave Foti or myself of this change.  The calculations for the up front payment was provided by them and clearly reflects the revenue sharing agreed to by Mark. Rod Hayslett 04/05/2000 06:47 AM 
Did we have a contract that was written and spelled out?    If not, (pretty sloppy business practice), then we are just going to have to tell Bill Cordes that we didn't have a deal, and someone is going to have to suck it in to make up the $500K.    If we did, what does the deal say? David Foti 04/04/2000 05:45 PM 
Rod, Steve, & James: In rough terms, this is what I understand ECS' logic to be - The $3.35 per KW for transmission demand charge was assumed not to be avoidable and have a 5000 KW minimum when ET&S and ECS agreed on the $2.8MM one time payment. ECS says that they have negotiated to make the transmission demand charge avoidable with no minimum. $3.35 * 10,000HP / 1.341 = $25k $25k discounted 10 years = $1.9MM 25% of 1.9MM = approx. $500k Original one time payment = $2.8MM less $0.5MM = $2.3MM (the new payment ECS wants to give ET&S) ECS contends that Fastuca agreed to a 25% sharing of benefits received from the avoidable demand.  My recollection is that the 25% was used as a benchmark to estimate ECS' fee but was never established as a firm rule. ECS is supposed to provide us with their own written explanation for the $500k reduction.  They are also supposed to send us the ""re-negotiated"" rate schedule 21 that shows the transmission demand charge becoming avoidable. In any event, whether it is reasonable or not that ECS is due the $500k, it is reasonable to expect that ET&S would have been notified of this change in a more timely manner. Dave Foti x.31978 
This explains a lot.  Lets talk at 9 on what the status of the case is--find some trade press articles first thing mon. AM and don't bug Janet quite yet. Sounds like Bill has arranged a briefing by the NB people for our benefit (and probably an argument about whether we should intervene).  Thanks.  DF 
Great job at the law conf!  You need to send a vcr tape up to us of the presentation so MKM and our group can use it for sensitivity training!!!  On other news, whats up with this????  Related to their downsizing?  Lorraine's a star--I was surprized to see this. See you soon, DF 
Please get me three copies--check with other folks in group and see if they want one.  Thanks..  DF 
I may have these at home, but just to be sure, please email me your H and W and Cell ph. #, pager #, palm pilot #, the # that connects to the steel plate in your head, your address, and any other communication coordinates you think I need to have.  I'll be at the Westin La Something in San Anton, checking out Friday, and cell # 402-630-8461.  I'll give you guys a call at one of your numbers at a time of your choosing on Friday PM, and then head over to your joint or a restaurant or something for festivities.   I may even call you today if I can get a few minutes away from the madness. I'm looking forward to reminding you about all of the fun things that come with working for corporate america.  You're gonna have to start reading Dilbert again so you can relate to all of us other corporate drones.  Adios, 
What's the status of our analysis?  Has anyone heard anything from Dennis or Tino lately?  I get concerned when they disappear for weeks like they 
pls give me your comments next week..  thanks  df 
Attached for your review and comment is a broad outline of a rate proposal to Caithness for the construction and operation of the 40-mile lateral to the Big Sandy project.  This non-binding proposal was requested by Caithness' consultant, George Briden, as a starting point for modeling the economics of the project's gas supply and a basis for further discussions aimed at designing an appropriate deal structure.  For your information, James Centilli calculated the transport rate based on the (+/- 30%) $20.33MM cost estimate with a ten-year (contract) amortization. I plan to put this in the mail by the close of business tomorrow.  If you have any suggestions, please let me hear from you by mid-day.   Thanks. 
Sounds OK to me.  Thanks.  DF 
Oh great, the knuckleheads at PG&E will get SoCal all spooked.  Good luck. Thanks.  DF 03/31/2000 04:00 PM Louis Soldano Louis Soldano Louis Soldano 03/31/2000 04:00 PM 03/31/2000 04:00 PM 
Mr. Campbell and I will meet Dr. Komai from SoCal in the late morning or early afternoon on the 19th in San Francisco.  After our discussions we will meet the rest of the group back at the Hyatt.  It is doubtful that Dr. Komai will have more than a couple of hours of information to share with the group on the 20th so we might considered targeting a departure time in mid-afternoon. Dr. Komai related that the PG&E press activity has caused concern at the management level in SoCal and prompted a new round of rigorous sampling efforts. 
No.  Thanks again!  DF 
We are checking this out.  I'll get with MKM and compare notes and get back to you.  Thanks.  DF 
Please check this out and get back to me asap.  thanks. DF 
pls print if you haven't already.   thanks. df 
pls print TW and NN docs only--not Border.  Thanks. DF 
Attached below are the Mastio Survey presentations for TW, NNG and NBPL which are to be reviewed with Stan and his direct reports on March 30. I want to thank everyone for their time and effort in reviewing the findings and recommendations for the Action Plans for each pipeline. The next steps will be to make sure we focus on addressing the areas stated in the Actions Plans. I also want to take the time to thank Tammy Lee-Jaquet for all her efforts in pulling this information together for TW & NNG. In addition, Kirsten Hand was instrumental in analyzing our information.  We could not have done this project without them. GREAT JOB!! This is only the first phase of this project which means we now have the task to ensure we address the areas of the Action Plans. More to come!! Thanks again everyone. Julia 
Attached is Northern Border's Mastio presentation. sc 
Dave - louie said you would want to see this.... 
I'm in--staying over Friday and flying out on Sat AM.  How far are you guys 
I have no great interest in appealing the FERC order denying rehearing.  This one is a loser as it was decided on TW-specific facts and I see no clear inconsistency between FERC's various orders on revenue sharing.   Unless 
That is by far the best line of the day!!  Unconscionability may be the thing I'm remembering, but I think there is some more specific law related to market dislocations--i.e., the Hurricane example.  Its sort of a twist on market power law--i.e., if the fates hand you short term market power, you better not use it.  DF Susan Scott 11/21/2000 10:08 AM 
I know there is some case law out there on contracts being voided because they are ""unconscionable.""  There are several examples in consumer law and employment law, in which one contracting party is a corporation and the other is a West Palm Beach voter.  However, if my memory serves me correctly, none of them involve contracts between 2 sophisticated business entities such as TW and Sempra or PG&E.  Absent evidence of fraud, courts uphold bargains struck at arms length. Kathy, I'd be happy to take the oars on this but if you've already done some looking, please let me know if you've found anything. 
Stuck on the phone so I thought I'd email you.  Stan has asked Mike Moran if TW has any potential exposure on the high value transport deals under ""anti gouging"" statutes or common law.  You know, the laws that say you can't charge $100 per sheet of plywood during a hurricane or $50 for a bucket of water during a drought.  I think we need to research two things: 1.  are there any such laws applicable to our business?  (Cal. state law would probably be the best place to start) 2.  could the political/regulatory fight in Cal about power and gas prices ever expand all the way to our transport pricing?  I.e., if the CPUC whacks the power sellers for taking unfair advantage of their monopoly power, its not a big leap for the CPUC or FERC or even U.S. congress to whack gas sellers for jacking prices up to $14/MMBtu, as happened on Friday.  If that happens, its just another small jump to whack us for charging $1 for transport, or so the logic goes.  I'd like to hear preliminary views by 8:30 Monday am so I can talk to Mike before Stan's staff meeting (no written memo necessary).  Based on that prelim. research, we can decide what else need s to be done.  Thanks df 
Great--thanks for the info.  DF Jeffery Fawcett 03/27/2000 11:54 AM 
Except for a small amount of capacity we're managing on a short-term basis [owing to the Topock lateral problem with PG&E], our West flow capacity is sold-out.  Therefore, there is really no means to compare the USGT alt. flow rights with an opportunity cost for unsubscribed firm capacity.  Moreover, the receipt points under the USGT deal are not on the San Juan Lateral, so any alt. West flow transportation will be marked against a Permian - Cal. Border price spread.  However, your instincts are probably correct regarding the practical use of the capacity -- if there is a market shift resulting is a significant widening of the East - West spread, then we'd likely see FTS-1 shippers with primary rights more fully utilizing their firm capacity, thereby frustrating any USGT attempt to access Cal. Border capacity. 
Steve, Kevin, and Jeff: If what I heard this morning is correct and the San Juan-Cal. basis is up to about 25 cents, I trust that we will be selling our Cal Border capacity with primary point rights at rates significantly higher than the $.04 available to USGT/Aquila under this deal.  In other words, it is very unlikely that USGT will be able to move significant volumes to California under the $.04 part of this deal, right?  With that understanding, I'm OK on the deal.  Thanks. DF Christine Stokes 03/24/2000 03:28 PM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE CONTRACT APPROVAL REQUEST Please review the attached non-standard discount letter for USGT. Transwestern and USGT have agreed to enter into a contract for 400,000 Dth/d of primary EOT-EOT capacity for the term April 1, 2000 through October 31, 2001.   The primary EOT-EOT path will be a 2-part rate structure:  $.0075 reservation and $.0093 commodity rate. USGT will also have the ability to flow to California on an alternate basis at a $.04 total rate. Transwestern and USGT have agreed to enter into a Revenue Sharing Mechanism whereby after USGT recovers their contract demand charges plus an additional $2.5 Million in Commodity Sales Margin revenue,  then TW and USGT will share 50%/50% in any additional Commodity Sales Margin revenue which USGT may receive. USGT will not retain their ROFR rights for their contract. (Please note that references to ""Appendix A""  in the discount letter refer to the FTS-1 Appendix A primary receipt and delivery point allocation of the 400,000 Dth/d primary capacity.) Please indicate approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY. All Officer approvals will be faxed to Bill Cordes for final President Level Approval. 
Here is the email I got from George.  I suspect he is just being high maintenance, but I never miss the opportunity to suck up to a potential customer, so hope you think my response is appropriate.  Thanks. DF 
I'll bring this up with Mr. Fawcett today and you will hear back from either him or I or both shortly!  Glad to be of help.  DF ""George Briden"" <gbriden.snakehill@worldnet.att.net> on 03/27/2000 08:57:04 AM 
Drew; Thanks for sending me off to read the order in CP99-522, etc.? I've  gotten a good feel for the relevant TW issues. Based on our preliminary information, TW looks attractive as the supply source for the Wikieup project.? ? FYI: I've discussed the project a couple of times with Jeff Fawcett, and he promised a first cut estimate? of facilities costs on this (as well as another) project, and suggested that it would be done by early March. Currently,  however, he seems to be among the missing (not returning phone calls,  etc.)? Maybe you could call over there and help me get his attention??  I'd sure like to make some progress on this deal. ? Thanks for your help. Regards, GB - George Briden.vcf 
I'll bring this up with Mr. Fawcett today and you will hear back from either him or I or both shortly!  Glad to be of help.  DF ""George Briden"" <gbriden.snakehill@worldnet.att.net> on 03/27/2000 08:57:04 AM 
Drew; Thanks for sending me off to read the order in CP99-522, etc.? I've  gotten a good feel for the relevant TW issues. Based on our preliminary information, TW looks attractive as the supply source for the Wikieup project.? ? FYI: I've discussed the project a couple of times with Jeff Fawcett, and he promised a first cut estimate? of facilities costs on this (as well as another) project, and suggested that it would be done by early March. Currently,  however, he seems to be among the missing (not returning phone calls,  etc.)? Maybe you could call over there and help me get his attention??  I'd sure like to make some progress on this deal. ? Thanks for your help. Regards, GB - George Briden.vcf 
Sounds like ""hiccup.""  Anyway, I got an email from George Briden asking what is up with our response on this power plant.  Any problems or is it just time lag on studying our facility needs?  Let me know if you want me to call him 
Martha is bringing it down.  Let me know if you need me.  Thanks. DF 
Hey, it worked great--I replicated several sets of messages without a problem.  Then, on Sunday, I did something and now can't get the computer to load up windows.  It stalls out on the ""Property of ET&S"" screen right after I turn it on.  Please make it happy again and ship it back up.  (I don't know if this would cause such a problem, but I may have shut off the computer off on saturday before I got the message saying ""it is now safe to shut off your computer.""  )  Thanks. DF 
Hey, it worked great--I replicated several sets of messages without a problem.  Then, on Sunday, I did something and now can't get the computer to load up windows.  It stalls out on the ""Property of ET&S"" screen right after I turn it on.  Please make it happy again and ship it back up.  (I don't know if this would cause such a problem, but I may have shut off the computer off on saturday before I got the message saying ""it is now safe to shut off your 
pls print this and hand it to me.  I tried sending it directly to the printer, but couldn't tell if it went.  Thanks. FD 
Drew; I've been working with Jeff Fawcett on two projects. Two clients are involved. I've heard nothing from TW on either.? One project (Wikieup, AZ) is  hot to go. Can you kick this guy for me (and TW)? I've been calling JF with?no response. Let me know if I can assist you in any way. Best regards, GB ? - George Briden.vcf 
Pls print.  thanks. DF 
I'm OK with trying what the commercial group wants but we'd better be aware of the consequences.  If we are successful, it may be a little easier to get Kent his authority to buy third party storage from other pipelines.  If we are unsuccessful, getting Kent's thing approved will get a bit harder.  I think the PNM proposal is pretty specific and has a nice operational basis that may help our chances somewhat. Also, I'm forwarding to Shelley to get a read on any FERC policy landmines.  Shelley, the summary of Madden's talk to INGAA that you circulated today quoted Madden as saying that FERC will take up the Texas Eastern remand soon.  Are we headed in the right direction? Looks to me like we may give Madden and his people an opportunity to broaden the current policy a bit without fundamentally changing it.  Thanks.  DF 
telkajdslkajfdlkasjdflkjsd 
Hey, got my facts together on our Houston gig--we'll be down Sat. Dec. 2 through mon the 4th.  Any chance we could swing by on Sunday and see  you 
Great intel.  I agree, when we sit down with Langley, we need to go through his DOE situation in detail and then take him up on the due diligence opportunities he offered us at the meeting in KC.  Thanks.  DF Kevin Hyatt 03/23/2000 09:29 AM 
Sorry for the length but it's pretty interesting stuff. 
Thanks Joe.  I'm asking Maria Pavlou to take a look at this and give you (and I) a preliminary answer.  I don't see any obvious problems--and the liability waiver is a good idea.  Maria--please take a look.  This will raise some of the same non jurisdictional revenue issues as the Clifton Machine Shop deal, unless we set it up on a strictly barter basis (i.e., no money changes hands--you give me 20 hours of training and I'll give you 20 hours of training).    DF 
I think its not bullet proof, but certainly defensable.  Lets do it.  Thanks. DF 
pls print.  thanks. df 
pls find this article and print for me (sounds interesting--please give to Soldano and Mike Moran also).  Thanks.  DF 
Thanks.  I'll call Tino back and tell him not to fret about what he heard from Maddox --I know Tino and Dennis knew about the Cobisa project and I think he believed Maddox was working on yet another project.  I can get Tino comfortable without breaching our confid. agreement with Maddox by just telling Tino that we understand there is just one project down South of our target location, not two.  Also, I'll let Tino know that early April looks like the best time to get together to talk numbers and we'll call to set it up when we are ready.  DF Lorraine Lindberg 03/16/2000 04:42 PM 
Drew - Good timing.  Here's what I know: 1) Jack Maddox and I have spoken sporadically in the past about very nebulous projects in areas near TW.  (We even have a signed Confidentiality Agreement with him!)  After I read your memo, I called him to see what's going on. He is working on a 220 MW gas-fired plant near Belen, NM.  Houston-based Cobisa Corp. will ask the city of Belen to issue industrial revenue bonds to help it build this plant.  Power generated by the plant will be sold to customers through service agreements with electricity moving along existing PNM lines.  Plans call for construction to begin by Spring 2001 with operations to begin by 2003.  Kevin and I have a meeting scheduled with him next Friday, March 31 in Albuquereque.  We'll keep you posted. 2)  I received the economic analysis today which factors in some of Dennis Langley's wish list.  The ""as good as it gets"" rate, assuming the project is sized at 150,000 MMBtu and fully subscribed over the project life of 10 years, is $.1631.  This does not include a) any ROW cost, b) a 50/50 split of any incremental revenue TW receives on its existing line as a result of additional capacity sold to serve new markets, or c) 25% of ownership in the assets and 25% of the cash flow stream after payout. I need to continue working the economics with James Centilli.  In the meantime, our consultant, Mark Baldwin will hopefully provide us with critical market information near the end of March. This is also around the time when Tino should have his report on detailed the cost estimate of construction and environmental issues.  Maybe we should rally first part of April to see where we are. Lorraine 
Here's the latest Tino-gram: 1.  Tino's environ. consultants have not discovered any stop signs. 2.  The Isleta is interested in granting Dennis ROW/lease for the power plant as well as the pipeline.  The power plant could be located on Isleta land adjacent to the South boundary of the Scandia reservation.  Thus, the power plant could be connected to DOE's existing powerline infrastructure without ever leaving the Isleta and DOE land.  PNM would not be necessary to move power to DOE.  Unclear to me whether this approach would give the power plant optimal access to the power grid for sales of surplus power.  (maybe  this could be done through DOE to an interconnect with PNM on the Scandia reservation?) 3.  Dennis is using Jim Slattery, an ex law partner of mine in DC (and ex Dem. U.S. Congressman from Kansas), as his primary contact with  Bill Richardson at DOE.  My recollection is that Jim does have a good relationship with Richardson, so this seems very likely to be effective.  Tino reports that ""DOE is OK with the deal"" and the next step is negotiating the power contract itself.  Tino said that DOE is aware that the capital for the project will not come from the tribe so the tribe's interest will be fairly thin.   It is unclear exactly how much indian ownership Dennis and Slattery promised DOE. 4.  Tino has run into a power plant consultant named Jack Maddox who says he's working on a 230MW plant to be located west of Belen.  Tino thinks he's working for the Laguna tribe, but wanted us to find out who is planning a big power plant out there.  Is this ours?  PNM's?  El Paso? Finally, the next key step is obviously the economics.  Based on what Tino told me, I'm convinced that Dennis and Tino don't have a real good sense of how much $$$ might be in this deal.  They are groping a bit and our initial analysis of the numbers will likely carry a lot of weight.  How are those efforts coming? Thanks.  DF 4. 
Please print.  Thanks. DF 
Attached is the updated summary sheet for TW's compressor monetization based on the criteria decided on in todays meeting.  The 5% COS reduction translates to  $149,000 benefit to TW's customers each year.  The sales price of $14.8MM will yeild a gain of approximately $3.2MM before tax and after the deduction for employee termination expenses estimated at $160,000. 
Here's the latest Tino-gram: 1.  Tino's environ. consultants have not discovered any stop signs. 2.  The Isleta is interested in granting Dennis ROW/lease for the power plant as well as the pipeline.  The power plant could be located on Isleta land adjacent to the South boundary of the Scandia reservation.  Thus, the power plant could be connected to DOE's existing powerline infrastructure without ever leaving the Isleta and DOE land.  PNM would not be necessary to move power to DOE.  Unclear to me whether this approach would give the power plant optimal access to the power grid for sales of surplus power.  (maybe  this could be done through DOE to an interconnect with PNM on the Scandia reservation?) 3.  Dennis is using Jim Slattery, an ex law partner of mine in DC (and ex Dem. U.S. Congressman from Kansas), as his primary contact with  Bill Richardson at DOE.  My recollection is that Jim does have a good relationship with Richardson, so this seems very likely to be effective.  Tino reports that ""DOE is OK with the deal"" and the next step is negotiating the power contract itself.  Tino said that DOE is aware that the capital for the project will not come from the tribe so the tribe's interest will be fairly thin.   It is unclear exactly how much indian ownership Dennis and Slattery promised DOE. 4.  Tino has run into a power plant consultant named Jack Maddox who says he's working on a 230MW plant to be located west of Belen.  Tino thinks he's working for the Laguna tribe, but wanted us to find out who is planning a big power plant out there.  Is this ours?  PNM's?  El Paso? Finally, the next key step is obviously the economics.  Based on what Tino told me, I'm convinced that Dennis and Tino don't have a real good sense of how much $$$ might be in this deal.  They are groping a bit and our initial analysis of the numbers will likely carry a lot of weight.  How are those efforts coming? Thanks.  DF 
I'm sure that many of you are aware that there has been a great deal of activity lately related to Enron's evaluation of possible acquisitions.  John Goodpasture's group has kept a large number of ET&S people engaged in looking at a number of potential deals.  While these deal evaluation projects have become routine around here, we all must remember that these projects are extremely confidential.  Even after a potential seller has announced that it is up for sale, the fact that Enron is looking at a potential deal, as well as any of our internal analysis of the deal, remains strictly confidential. I realize that many of you have ongoing business relationships with employees of some of the companies that we have evaluated or may evaluate in the future.  If you find yourself in such a situation, and a business contact at the target company asks whether Enron is evaluating the contact's company or assets, the only appropriate response is that Enron personnel are not permitted to discuss potential acquisitions.  Please be aware that the confidentiality agreements that we typically sign as part of the acquisition evaluation process preclude any communication by Enron people with employees of the target company. If you have any questions or concerns regarding this requirement, please do 
I'm sure that many of you are aware that there has been a great deal of activity lately related to Enron's evaluation of possible acquisitions.  John Goodpasture's group has kept a large number of ET&S people engaged in looking at a number of potential deals.  While these deal evaluation projects have become routine around here, we all must remember that these projects are extremely confidential.  Even after a potential seller has announced that it is up for sale, the fact that Enron is looking at a potential deal, as well as any of our internal analysis of the deal, remains strictly confidential. I realize that many of you have ongoing business relationships with employees of some of the companies that we have evaluated or may evaluate in the future.  If you find yourself in such a situation, and a business contact at the target company asks whether Enron is evaluating the contact's company or assets, the only appropriate response is that Enron personnel are not permitted to discuss potential acquisitions.  Please be aware that the confidentiality agreements that we typically sign as part of the acquisition evaluation process preclude any communication by Enron people with employees of the target company. If you have any questions or concerns regarding this requirement, please do not hesitate to give me a call.  Thank you for your assistance. DF 
Stuck on the phone so I thought I'd email you.  Stan has asked Mike Moran if TW has any potential exposure on the high value transport deals under ""anti gouging"" statutes or common law.  You know, the laws that say you can't charge $100 per sheet of plywood during a hurricane or $50 for a bucket of water during a drought.  I think we need to research two things: 1.  are there any such laws applicable to our business?  (Cal. state law would probably be the best place to start) 2.  could the political/regulatory fight in Cal about power and gas prices ever expand all the way to our transport pricing?  I.e., if the CPUC whacks the power sellers for taking unfair advantage of their monopoly power, its not a big leap for the CPUC or FERC or even U.S. congress to whack gas sellers for jacking prices up to $14/MMBtu, as happened on Friday.  If that happens, its just another small jump to whack us for charging $1 for transport, or so the logic goes.  I'd like to hear preliminary views by 8:30 Monday am so I can talk to Mike before Stan's staff meeting (no written memo necessary).  Based on that prelim. research, we can decide what else need s 
I'm sure that many of you are aware that there has been a great deal of activity lately related to Enron's evaluation of possible acquisitions.  John Goodpasture's group has kept a large number of ET&S people engaged in looking at a number of potential deals.  While these deal evaluation projects have become routine around here, we all must remember that these projects are extremely confidential.  Even after a potential seller has announced that it is up for sale, the fact that Enron is looking at a potential deal, as well as any of our internal analysis of the deal, remains strictly confidential. I realize that many of you have ongoing business relationships with employees of some of the companies that we have evaluated or may evaluate in the future.  If you find yourself in such a situation, and a business contact at the target company asks whether Enron is evaluating the contact's company or assets, the only appropriate response is that Enron personnel are not permitted to discuss potential acquisitions.  Please be aware that the confidentiality agreements that we typically sign as part of the acquisition evaluation process preclude any communication by Enron people with employees of the target company. If you have any questions or concerns regarding this requirement, please do not hesitate to give me a call.  Thank you for your assistance. DF 
I'm having Martha schedule a conf. call to discuss this.  I also want to discuss potential exposure if PG&E's public disclosure strategy kicks off a round of lawsuits.  Thanks.  DF 
Thanks.  Got it and I've talked to Caren.  DF Gay Arnold 03/15/2000 08:30 AM 
Caren Sweetland 
pls print.  thanks DF 
Attached is my analysis based on a sales price of $14.2MM and $14.8MM with a buy back in the 7th year.  The loan structure for Hanover assumes that the difference between the sales price and TW's buy back price would be amortized over the contract term.  The remaining balance of the loan is assumed to be a balloon payment at the end of the finance term. I will put together some analysis on a 9 year term and forward this on to you when it is completed. 
Emily, please print this up for me with attachment.  I'll stop by later to pick it up.  Thanks.  DF 
Thanks for keeping me in the loop on this.  I've known Briden for years and would be happy to help out if it would be useful.  DF Jeffery Fawcett 03/13/2000 01:25 PM 
Marketing needs an ""order of magnitude"" estimate for two IPP projects that are being developed-  one is NW Arizona, the other off the Panhandle lateral.  These estimates are for purposes of preliminary scoping of the project(s).  The Caithness Sandy Project is a little farther along in the development process. I know we've considered the Wikiup location before as being a possible ""first drop-off"" point for the Panda lateral, but for purposes of this analysis, let's look at the Caithness (Wikiup) as a stand alone project. With respect to the Panhandle lateral project, do we even have enough flowing gas supply to handle this load consistently?  Can we meet the pressure requirement? Since we're probably looking at Timberline-type estimates I'm assuming this isn't too long a putt for you guys.  Can you give me a time frame to get back to me with something, first on Caithness, then on Panhandle?  Thanks. Requesting party: Gas consultant- George Briden Snake Hill Energy Resources 17 Cody Dr. Glocester, Rhode Island  02857-2916 telephone:  401-934-1433 Project #1 Caithness Corp.-  Caithness Sandy, LLC Project Estimate to build a station and a lateral down to a location, approx. 40 miles south of Kingman, 2 mil. S/W of Wikiup, AZ. (along Hwy. 93) in: Sec. 5, T15N, R12W Mohave Cnty.,  Az. IPP load forcasted at 80 (1st phase) to 120 MMcf/d (2nd phase) at not less than 450 psig. Test Gas Jan. 2002 Commercial July 2002 Caithness is privately held.  It has geothermal projects and one gas fired project-  S.Carolina Project #2 Undisclosed Utility Customer (probably SPS or PNM) Estimate to build a station and a lateral down to a (secret) location 2 miles from TW's Panhandle Lateral in Curry County, N.M. IPP load forcasted 125 MMcf/d Two GE Frame F(a)'s 550 psig minimum 
Thanks, but I am in meetings today and can't make it.  Thanks. DF Tammy Jaquet 03/13/2000 11:58 AM 
The meeting with Dave has been changed to Houston.   Did you still want to participate?  The conference room in Houston has a conference telephone but it is not a video conference room.  If you want to meet in an office or conference room in Omaha I can conference you in if you are still interested.  Just let me know what you would like for me to do. Thanks, Tammy 
pls print for me.  thanks. dF 
Attached is my analysis based on a sales price of $14.2MM and $14.8MM with a buy back in the 7th year.  The loan structure for Hanover assumes that the difference between the sales price and TW's buy back price would be amortized over the contract term.  The remaining balance of the loan is assumed to be a balloon payment at the end of the finance term. I will put together some analysis on a 9 year term and forward this on to you when it is completed. 
Please find out what you can about which issues FERC is interested in on the Gallup rehearing requests.  I.e., did they issue the tolling order because of our rehearing arguments on the confidentiality issue or SoCal's on the rate discrimination issues?  Anything you learn would be helpful, but this info is 
I found the reference I was remembering over the weekend.  Check out the order issued to TriState Pipeline at Docket CP99-61.  FERC got all over CMS on the problems posed by ""dual jurisdictional facilities"" whatever that means.  CMS tried to do something that sounds a lot like what PNM would be doing under the idea you guys had. 
Interesting.  Assuming we could satisfy the Texas Eastern criteria (which would be tough given that this is a firm service, unlike our market center service), we still need to think about PNM's situation.  The letter says they are a Hinshaw.  This deal would seem to blow their Hinshaw exemption.  There is some new law on use of capacity on a Hinshaw for interstate service, only I think it involved a capacity lease instead of service agreements.   I think it was one of the Northeast pipeline cases involving CMS.  Does PNM know that we would use their service for interstate transportation?  If we can crack the Hinshaw issue, this might be worth a shot.  DF Mary Kay Miller 03/11/2000 11:22 AM 
Mary,  I was unable to forward the attachment--  so try to get it form Glen Susan,  I don't think it is a problem to try this, however,  do we have the current rates including fuel etc that we would have to pay and how much capacity would we be acquiring?  Need to see this-  MK 
As you requested, following are the facts for the media regarding the negotiated rate deals that TW has recently done at rates in excess of the tariff max rate.   Please note that the first two transactions are already public and the following information can be disclosed now.  The third deal has not been filed yet and will not be public until it is.  That filing will be made before Dec. 1, 2000. General:  TW has done three deals in the last week at rates in excess of TW's maximum tariff rate.  Each of the deals was done pursuant to TW's negotiated rate authority, which FERC granted TW in 1997.  (Order issued April 11, 1997, Transwestern Pipeline Co., 79 FERC Par. 61,021).  Pursuant to that authority, TW has filed negotiated rate tariff sheets with the FERC, which are docketed at Docket No. RP97-288.  Details on the specific transactions are as follows: Deal 1:  Counterparty:  PG&E Energy Trading Rate Schedule:  ITS-1 Volume:    30,000/day Rate:  $.90/MMBtu, inclusive of surcharges Term: the one day period of November 15, 2000 Receipt points:  NNG Halley, West Texas Pool Delivery point:  SoCal Topock Deal 2:  Same as Deal 1,  except term is one day period of November 16, 2000 and rate is $.75/MMBtu Deal 3:  Counterparty:  Sempra Energy Trading Rate Schedule:  LFT Volume:  10,000/day Rate:  $1.00/MMBtu, inclusive of surcharges Term:  Dec. 1-Dec. 31, 2000 Receipt point:  Bloomfield Delivery point:  PG&E Topock All of the above information is contained in TW's FERC filings on these transactions.  No other information is available as TW does not comment on 
Please take a look at this history of the regulatory issues on Hubbard.  Note that I am still trying to confirm some potentially helpful facts.  I'll walk you through what I think this means on Monday or whenever you have time. Thanks.   DF 
I think this is what Dot is looking for.  I had it on computer so thought I'd just email it to you.  Thanks.  DF 
pls print.  thanksdf 
Emily Sellers asked that I email the draft of the 10-K to you.  It is in 5 sections because we will eventually fold in the financials and the management discussion pages. 
pls print.  thanks. df 
check with susan on the daily issue--did we test the reason behind our daily limit?  If we can do one month deals, why not 12 month? 
pls print.  thanks. df 
Thanks.  These are Feb. only numbers, right?  Do you have something showing year to date?  I'll give you a call.  DF 
Thanks Bob.  I'd suggest that you handle the points in the first and second paragraphs of your email with Gary Peng, including updating the verbiage as you deem appropriate to address the North Dakota, weather, and mileage issues.  Please send to Mike Moran and myself the changes you propose (including the numbers).  We have already modified the language you reference in your third paragraph (per Michele Winckowski), so that's taken care of. Mike, you or I should let Rex know that a couple of these additional tweaks are coming through this other channel.  One of us can then send them directly to Rex if that would be helpful.    DF 
Bob, Steve Gilbert was not working on this, but he thought that the numbers in 10ks and annual reports generally get filled in by Elaine Concklin or someone based on ET&S numbers fed up throught the system by Gilbert's group. For now, I'm leaving the blanks in this draft blank and explaining to Moran that I have limited our review to the legal and regulatory verbiage. Thanks.  DF 
Emily Sellers asked that I email the draft of the 10-K to you.  It is in 5 sections because we will eventually fold in the financials and the management discussion pages. 
pls print.  thanksdf 
Emily Sellers asked that I email the draft of the 10-K to you.  It is in 5 sections because we will eventually fold in the financials and the management discussion pages. 
Reed and Lana, thanks again for a great stay in the hills!  We all had a blast and I'm happy to report that Britt and Tina are bragging to their little classmates about their newfound skiing prowess!  Next thing you know they'll be starring in a Warren Miller video!  Have a great time in BC and 
As we discussed, based on this email and the other information you have given me, I have significant concerns about our ability to use the ENA products discussed below.  Having ENA IT people involved on an ongoing basis in maintaining the software and assisting us in using it would probably constitute a violation of the marketing affiliate rules or would at minimum create the appearance of marketing affiliate violations.  As I understand the risk books, etc., confidential information on our various capacity positions would be all over the place and difficult or impossible to firewall off from ENA people working on those books.  If there is some firewall strategy that the ENA folks have in mind, i.e., if those IT people are or will be employed by Networks or Corp., I am eager to listen, but from what I have learned so far, I am not comfortable with our use of the ENA system.  DF Lee Ferrell 11/16/2000 04:16 PM 
We have been asked to justify our  proposal to purchase third party risk management software rather than use in-house ENA systems.  Since there are affiliate issues as addressed below, please give us your opinion of the risk we might run in trying to use ENA's systems. 
Lee, Just to recap the meeting with Richard Burchfield and Steve Stock, based on the requirements that you and Vernon have identified, we would need to use several of the system components including TAG, ERMS, GLOBAL COUNTERPARTY, CREDIT, and UNIFY for settlements.  All of these applications are tightly integrated.  We considered moving them into the ETS environment which would separate the applications, but this would be a very large undertaking and would be a resource intensive effort.  Therefore, due to the size, complexity and integration of the applications, the group came to the conclusion that it would be more timely and cost effective from an inception as well as maintenance standpoint that ETS would have to share these systems with the marketing group, and that porting them to the ETS environment as separate application images would not be good from an overall migration as well as support standpoint.  Additionally, we considered the EnPower System which is also integrated into GLOBAL COUNTERPARTY, CREDIT and UNIFY.  We are planning on a demo Friday morning, but there may be some functionality that you all are looking for related to gas that EnPower cannot provide at this time and would require some customization.  We'll know more tomorrow after the demo. Regarding security, these applications are secured to segregate the data, but we need an approval from Legal that it would be ok to use shared resources from the IT standpoint.  This would include application developers and database administrators.  Additionally, we would have to go through the process of verifying that there would be no security leaks where it would be possible for a marketer to run a report on pipeline related data, etc...  If we can get an ok from Legal regardinig sharing of resources, then one of these options can be explored further, but if we cannot get approval on sharing of resources, it doesn't look like porting either of these applications into the ETS environment as standalone apps would be the most timely or cost effective way to go at this time.  Can you get a stand from Legal regarding this issue?  Thanks. 
Please see attached notes of the last meeting with PGE on Topock pcb problem.  Lou will be coordinating development of a litigation strategy in case PGE cuts our deliveries below 250 mm/d or pursues decon. of the Topock compressor (with the expectation that we will pay for the work under the operating agreement indemnity).  I volunteered your services, and my own, to assist with this work.  I believe the next step is for Lou to set up a meeting to discuss.  Thanks.  DF 
Mike - please see the redlined changes. As you can see my skills in manipulating a table are limited.   Thx. 
pls print.  thanks. df 
Mike - please see the redlined changes. As you can see my skills in manipulating a table are limited.   Thx. 
Sounds reasonable to me.  When do we sign?  Seriously, this just confirms in my mind that Langley isn't looking very closely at the economics of the deal because he doesn't have any capital or O & M numbers (or heat rates) on the generation equipment so he has no idea how thick or thin the margins might be on this project.  Once we are able to show him some economics he will presumably be in a position to be reasonable on the issues discussed below. If he's not willing to be reasonable, we're done talking to him. Steven Harris 03/07/2000 10:28 AM 
I spoke to Dennis Langley yesterday about his ideas on the financial stake he is looking for in the project. There are several items which will need to be included in our economic analysis as they will burden the project . The conditions are as follows: - Dennis needs (wants) to recover the O&M for his idea-generating group which he estimates to be $2 to $3 million per year! - Share with Dennis a 50/50 split of any incremental revenue TW receives on its existing line as a result of additional capacity sold to serve these markets! - A 50/50 split of any revenue received on the new line which is built . - The Native American tribe(s) will receive 25% of ownership in the assets and 25% of the cashflow stream after payout (he mentioned something about an IRR of 8% being the threshold). His general feeling was that the pipeline should be a 50/50 joint venture but the gas-fired generation plant would be ours. James will need to run the numbers but my uneducated guess says that if things were slim before these financial hits will certainly render the project uneconomic (especially the $2 to $3 million/year extra O&M). He did indicate that they are having very good conversations with the DOE and would expect to sign a contract in April. I am somewhat  puzzled by what he could commit to since he would have no idea what rates he could charge for the electricity or gas transportation. I told Dennis we would follow-up with him shortly. In the meantime, we will be working with Mark Baldwin to scope out the opportunities in New Mexico. 
if you haven't already, pls print for me.  thanks. DF 
In preparation of our meeting on March 7th,  attached are the draft results of the Mastio Review for NNG and TW. 
It is penciled in on Drew's calendar and I have an eraser. Jan Cobden 03/03/2000 03:22 PM 
So far, it looks like Tuesday will work for scheduling this call, so please pencil-in 2:00 pm on Tuesday March 7, 2000.  If okay for all of you, I will send out a confirmation and a dial-in phone number on Monday. Thank you. Jan 
Drew is available Monday after 10:00 except for 2 to 3. He is available all day Tuesday and on Wednesday from 1 to 2. Martha for Drew Jan Cobden 03/03/2000 11:15 AM 
Lou  Soldano would like to set up a conference call next week preferably Monday, Tuesday or early Wednesday to discuss PG&E. Please notify me of your availability.  Thank you. Jan Cobden for Lou Soldano 
I got a call from Tino earlier today (right after our meeting on Pueblo) but could only talk to him for a few minutes before I had to jump off.  I did let him know that Kevin or Lorraine would be calling to talk about info that we need to complete our analysis of the economics.  He also let me know that they are looking at another power plant project in the SW Power Pool and want 
Maybe he's my long lost granddad!  DF Jeffery Fawcett 02/29/2000 10:15 AM 
Jim Fossum is about a hundred years old.  He's been employed by nearly every storage developer operating in the state.  We knew him back in the early 90's (that's 1990's) when he was trying to sell the ""Ten Section"" project to Mojave Pipeline.   The Ten Section is the project referred to in the press clipping near Bakersfield, CA.  Their other project (""Lodi"") is in direct competition with the ""Wild Goose"" storage project near Sacramento. 
No, not that I know of.  I've never met the western Fossum, but I do know the guys who own Western Hub pretty well--John Strom and Larry Bickle.  If we have any interest in this project or other merchant storage in California, these are the guys to deal with as they have mapped about 90% of the state looking for salt or other storage plays. ET & S Business Intelligence 
Maria, please take a look at this list of ""Reference Entities"" and the attached memo.  I doubt we have any reason to knock out any of the listed entities based on legal controversies, etc., but its worth a check .  From the attached memo, it looks like a more likely reason to disqualify an entity would be credit problems or some other commercial issue.  I'm in a bind today and out the rest of the week so it would be helpful if you could pick this ball up in my absence.   Please get back to me and Mike with the results of your analysis.  Thanks.  DF 
Please see the attached memos and let me know if you see any problem with any of the entities on the list. 
I finally stumbled over something that forced me to get my shit together and update my email addresses on you guys.  Its been a strong couple of weeks for the merchant storage business!  First you guys (and FERC) finally put the last nail in CNG and Penn Fuels' coffins on Tioga, then old Larry,John and Dill finally dust off Lodi and get going!  Wow!  I shouldn't have joined the evil empire quite so fast! Seriously, congratulations on starting construction up in PA.  I ran into my old law partner Hill out in DC last week and got a great update on the recent battles against those drips at CNG and Penn Fuel.  Siggy, what are you going to do without Carol Lynn to fight with?????  Best wishes for continued success!  DF 
When you guys settle on a name for NewCo, please let me know and also call 
OK.  DF 
Congratulations!  Sounds like the merchant storage business has had a good couple of weeks with you guys clearing your environmental hurdles and the Tioga guys finally starting construction!  I may have acted rashly in joining the evil empire--should have jumped into the storage business instead! Tom, are you the point guy for marketing the project?  I'd like to hook you up with our Transwestern marketing guys on possible deals to backstop Transwestern's ""Park and Ride"" service.  We are currently authorized by FERC to use PG&E market center service for that purpose, but I suspect firm or interruptible Lodi service  would be better suited for what we need. Best wishes for continued success! 
No, not that I know of.  I've never met the western Fossum, but I do know the guys who own Western Hub pretty well--John Strom and Larry Bickle.  If we have any interest in this project or other merchant storage in California, these are the guys to deal with as they have mapped about 90% of the state looking for salt or other storage plays. ET & S Business Intelligence 
I'm OK on this, with one small change.  Please add ""/MMBtu"" after ""$.08"" in paragraph 3.  I just want it clearer that the 8 cent rate is per unit as utilized.  Thanks. DF Christine Stokes 02/25/2000 10:03 AM 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE CONTRACT APPROVAL REQUEST Please review the attached non-standard discount letter for Duke Energy Trading & Marketing.  The one year contract for 10,000 Dth/d provides for primary EOT-EOT transportation.  Duke is allowed to transport to SoCal/Needles at an incremental rate based upon actual utilization.  Duke has retained ROFR rights and rights to capacity release revenues above the discounted rate. Please indicated approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.   If any questions arise please contact me at x35702. 
Got a call from Dennis out of the blue this afternoon.  He's pretty gung ho, and also alluded to several other projects he's got on the front burner (gas-fired power deals).  He had met again with some DOE folks in DC about the power contract and feels it is 70-80% locked in.  Have you ever known a project developer who would admit to less than 70-80% odds???  I look forward 
As I understand the situation, Plains and Tri-State have indicated their intent to close the merger.  Tim's best intelligence is that a June 1 closing date is the best they can hope for and it may be late June or later.  Also, until the deal actually closes, there is always a small chance it could come undone.  If we get Gallup in service May 1, we have a 1 month or greater bust between our in service date and the date the cheap electric rate kicks in. Has Courtney got this covered?  I suspect he's been thrashing around so much on locking in the swap that it hasn't been on his radar screen. I think we should formally notify ECS that we expect them to negotiate a favorable interim power deal to cover the gap between our in service date and the merger closing.  (the difference between the $.038 and .067 rate was about $200,000/ month as I recall, so this is worth some real $$$)  Also, we ought to remind Courtney that he is still obligated to find a better deal for us if the merger goes south for some reason.  I drafted a letter  awhile back that could be updated for this purpose.  Susan, assuming Steve and company agree, could you follow up on this (I'm having Martha email it to you).  The contract requires us to notify ECS by March 1.  Thanks.  DF 
Thanks Lynn!  DF Lynn Blair                02/25/2000 01:49 PM 
Just to follow up on my phone call to Drew and to let Charlie know the status. 1.  Mike Moran is going to get with Perry Frasier, TW Facility Planning and review a map Mike has.  Perry will cover both NNG and TW. 2.  Linda Trevino will put together the wellhead/producer connect information request by usine information out of PLE for a, b and c.  She will then give the spreadsheet to Sharon Mcknight to update for d,e and g.  Mike, I believe you are addressing f, h and i. 3.  Linda will try to have this information next week. If you need any additional information, please let Steve, Linda or I know. Thanks. Lynn 
I understand that the FTC subpoena I sent to Julia and Mike Nelson yesterday has found its way to you.  Please give me a call with your thoughts on who is best situated to help prepare the response and how long it would take.  Mike Moran and I plan to call the FTC back this PM to discuss so your input would be helpful.  Thanks for your assistance.  DF 
pls make sure this is done on my machine.  Thanks DF 
OK?  Is the per unit rate for the Cal Border deliveries kosher on a firm contract?  DF 
TRANSWESTERN PIPELINE CONTRACT APPROVAL REQUEST Please review the attached non-standard discount letter for Duke Energy Trading & Marketing.  The one year contract for 10,000 Dth/d provides for primary EOT-EOT transportation.  Duke is allowed to transport to SoCal/Needles at an incremental rate based upon actual utilization.  Duke has retained ROFR rights and rights to capacity release revenues above the discounted rate. Please indicated approval via REPLY WITH HISTORY.   If any questions arise please contact me at x35702. 
I've talked to Lee Ferrell about this, and it sounds to me like there are serious business reasons (i.e., cost and functionality) not to use the ENA system.  THe ""sharing of resources"" issue worries me, but might be solvable if the right people are in Networks instead of ENA.  I'll call you tomorrow. DF 
We have been asked to justify our  proposal to purchase third party risk management software rather than use in-house ENA systems.  Since there are affiliate issues as addressed below, please give us your opinion of the risk we might run in trying to use ENA's systems. 
Lee, Just to recap the meeting with Richard Burchfield and Steve Stock, based on the requirements that you and Vernon have identified, we would need to use several of the system components including TAG, ERMS, GLOBAL COUNTERPARTY, CREDIT, and UNIFY for settlements.  All of these applications are tightly integrated.  We considered moving them into the ETS environment which would separate the applications, but this would be a very large undertaking and would be a resource intensive effort.  Therefore, due to the size, complexity and integration of the applications, the group came to the conclusion that it would be more timely and cost effective from an inception as well as maintenance standpoint that ETS would have to share these systems with the marketing group, and that porting them to the ETS environment as separate application images would not be good from an overall migration as well as support standpoint.  Additionally, we considered the EnPower System which is also integrated into GLOBAL COUNTERPARTY, CREDIT and UNIFY.  We are planning on a demo Friday morning, but there may be some functionality that you all are looking for related to gas that EnPower cannot provide at this time and would require some customization.  We'll know more tomorrow after the demo. Regarding security, these applications are secured to segregate the data, but we need an approval from Legal that it would be ok to use shared resources from the IT standpoint.  This would include application developers and database administrators.  Additionally, we would have to go through the process of verifying that there would be no security leaks where it would be possible for a marketer to run a report on pipeline related data, etc...  If we can get an ok from Legal regardinig sharing of resources, then one of these options can be explored further, but if we cannot get approval on sharing of resources, it doesn't look like porting either of these applications into the ETS environment as standalone apps would be the most timely or cost effective way to go at this time.  Can you get a stand from Legal regarding this issue?  Thanks. 
One more piece of info.  I'll call you shortly.   Thanks.  DF 
I understand that the FTC subpoena I sent to Julia and Mike Nelson yesterday has found its way to you.  Please give me a call with your thoughts on who is best situated to help prepare the response and how long it would take.  Mike Moran and I plan to call the FTC back this PM to discuss so your input would be helpful.  Thanks for your assistance.  DF 
George, sorry I disappeared for a few days.  I'm back at the ranch now and eager to talk--please give me a call at 402-398-7449 at your convenience. I'm in and available after 3:30 today and basically all day tomorrow.  After that, Monday and Tuesday are relatively infested with meetings and I head out on a short vacation on Wed.  I look forward to talking to you.  DF ""George Briden"" <gbriden.snakehill@worldnet.att.net> on 02/22/2000 01:00:44 PM 
Yup, went over to the dark side.  On the power plant, I've got a couple of guys you need to talk to.  Steve Harris is VP of marketing at TW, and Kevin Hyatt is his right hand guy.  Steve is at 713-853-1796 and I'm not sure what Hyatt's # is.  Give me a call and I'll tell you what I can about what we're doing to help site power plants.  When did you go out-house?  I don't think I've run into you since you were running around with Shoneman. Adios, DF. ""George Briden"" <gbriden.snakehill@worldnet.att.net> on 02/21/2000 10:53:06 AM 
Drew; Congratulations on your new job. I didn't realize that you had joined  the pipelines. I've got a client interested in developing a power plant in Arizona off Transwestern. Can you give me a good contact at Transwestern? Regards, George Briden (See attached file: George Briden.vcf) 
???  What rumor was this press release responding to?  What did you do to= =20 drive the stock price down by $5?  I don't hear nuthin in Omaha so you've= =20 gotta keep me plugged in!  DF 
I suspect that the answer lies in Mary Kay Miller's or Julia White's areas, or both.  Mary Kay and Julia, who is the best person to go to to find the monthly sales MDQ from 88 through the end of the merchant service?  I suspect that Glen or Bob could point us toward the monthly aggregate purchase data during that same period (Britt--wasn't this was provided in discovery prior to the first trial?).  I think we are still working on the %Mertzon purchases were of the total--Kathy Ringblom please grab me in the morning on this. Thanks all.  DF ""Barrett H. Reasoner"" <Breasoner@Gibbs-Bruns.com> on 02/21/2000 11:07:29 AM 
When they were in Ponca City, Michael Keenan of EconOne (our damages experts) advised Jeff and Caren that they need the following info.: 1) monthly figures for system-wide firm entitlement (what our customers were purchasing from 1988 until we stopped selling). If different from these figures, then we also need monthly figures for total system-wide purchases; and 2) monthly figures for deliveries of gas to the Mertzon plant. Please let us know who we should contact to pull this together. Also, did we ever get any word back on the question of what % of the total gas Northern was purchasing the gas behind the Mertzon plant represented? 
Yup, went over to the dark side.  On the power plant, I've got a couple of guys you need to talk to.  Steve Harris is VP of marketing at TW, and Kevin Hyatt is his right hand guy.  Steve is at 713-853-1796 and I'm not sure what Hyatt's # is.  Give me a call and I'll tell you what I can about what we're doing to help site power plants.  When did you go out-house?  I don't think I've run into you since you were running around with Shoneman.  Adios, DF. ""George Briden"" <gbriden.snakehill@worldnet.att.net> on 02/21/2000 10:53:06 AM 
Drew; Congratulations on your new job.? I didn't realize that you had joined  the pipelines. I've got a client interested in developing a power plant in Arizona off Transwestern.? Can you give me a good contact at Transwestern? Regards, George Briden - George Briden.vcf 