As a reminder, the daily call on California has ended. We will now have a single weekly call on Monday at 10:30 am Houston time. Updates will be provided through e-mail as required. Jim Steffes 
Enron has agreed that the key issue is to focus on solving the S-T buying needs.  Attached is a spreadsheet that outlines the $ magnitude of the next few months. TALKING POINTS: Lot's of questions about DWR becoming the  vehicle for S-T buying and there is a significant legal risk for it becoming the vehicle.  WE DO NEED SOMETHING TO BRIDGE BEFORE WE PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS. Huge and growing shortfall ($3.2B through March 31, 2001) The SOONER YOU CAN PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS STOP THE BLEEDING. Bankruptcy takes all authority out of the Legislature's hands. ACTION ITEMS: 1. Energy Sales Participation Agreement During Bankruptcy Michael Tribolet will be contacting John Klauberg to discuss how to organize a Participation Agreement to sell to UDCs in Bankruptcy while securing Super Priority. 2. Legislative Language for CDWR (?) Buying Short-Term Sandi McCubbin / Jeff Dasovich will lead team to offer new language to meet S-T requirements of UDCs.  Key is to talk with State of California Treasurer to see if the $ can be found or provided to private firms.  ($3.5B by end of April).  Pat Boylston will develop ""public benefit"" language for options working with Mike Day.  He can be reached at 503-294-9116 or pgboylston@stoel.com. 3. Get Team to Sacramento Get with Hertzberg to discuss the options (Bev Hansen).  Explain the magnitude of the problem.  Get Mike Day to help draft language. 4. See if UDCs have any Thoughts Steve Kean will communicate with UDCs to see if they have any solutions or thougths.  Probably of limited value. 5. Update List Any new information on this should be communicated to the following people as soon as possible.  These people should update their respective business units. ENA Legal - Christian Yoder / Travis McCullough Credit - Michael Tribolet EES - Vicki Sharp / Don Black ENA - Tim Belden / Philip Allen Govt Affairs - Steve Kean / Richard Shapiro 
As a reminder, the daily call on California has ended. We will now have a single weekly call on Monday at 10:30 am Houston time. Updates will be provided through e-mail as required. Jim Steffes 
Enron has agreed that the key issue is to focus on solving the S-T buying needs.  Attached is a spreadsheet that outlines the $ magnitude of the next few months. TALKING POINTS: Lot's of questions about DWR becoming the  vehicle for S-T buying and there is a significant legal risk for it becoming the vehicle.  WE DO NEED SOMETHING TO BRIDGE BEFORE WE PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS. Huge and growing shortfall ($3.2B through March 31, 2001) The SOONER YOU CAN PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS STOP THE BLEEDING. Bankruptcy takes all authority out of the Legislature's hands. ACTION ITEMS: 1. Energy Sales Participation Agreement During Bankruptcy Michael Tribolet will be contacting John Klauberg to discuss how to organize a Participation Agreement to sell to UDCs in Bankruptcy while securing Super Priority. 2. Legislative Language for CDWR (?) Buying Short-Term Sandi McCubbin / Jeff Dasovich will lead team to offer new language to meet S-T requirements of UDCs.  Key is to talk with State of California Treasurer to see if the $ can be found or provided to private firms.  ($3.5B by end of April).  Pat Boylston will develop ""public benefit"" language for options working with Mike Day.  He can be reached at 503-294-9116 or pgboylston@stoel.com. 3. Get Team to Sacramento Get with Hertzberg to discuss the options (Bev Hansen).  Explain the magnitude of the problem.  Get Mike Day to help draft language. 4. See if UDCs have any Thoughts Steve Kean will communicate with UDCs to see if they have any solutions or thougths.  Probably of limited value. 5. Update List Any new information on this should be communicated to the following people as soon as possible.  These people should update their respective business units. ENA Legal - Christian Yoder / Travis McCullough Credit - Michael Tribolet EES - Vicki Sharp / Don Black ENA - Tim Belden / Philip Allen Govt Affairs - Steve Kean / Richard Shapiro 
Enron has agreed that the key issue is to focus on solving the S-T buying needs.  Attached is a spreadsheet that outlines the $ magnitude of the next few months. TALKING POINTS: Lot's of questions about DWR becoming the  vehicle for S-T buying and there is a significant legal risk for it becoming the vehicle.  WE DO NEED SOMETHING TO BRIDGE BEFORE WE PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS. Huge and growing shortfall ($3.2B through March 31, 2001) The SOONER YOU CAN PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS STOP THE BLEEDING. Bankruptcy takes all authority out of the Legislature's hands. ACTION ITEMS: 1. Energy Sales Participation Agreement During Bankruptcy Michael Tribolet will be contacting John Klauberg to discuss how to organize a Participation Agreement to sell to UDCs in Bankruptcy while securing Super Priority. 2. Legislative Language for CDWR (?) Buying Short-Term Sandi McCubbin / Jeff Dasovich will lead team to offer new language to meet S-T requirements of UDCs.  Key is to talk with State of California Treasurer to see if the $ can be found or provided to private firms.  ($3.5B by end of April).  Pat Boylston will develop ""public benefit"" language for options working with Mike Day.  He can be reached at 503-294-9116 or pgboylston@stoel.com. 3. Get Team to Sacramento Get with Hertzberg to discuss the options (Bev Hansen).  Explain the magnitude of the problem.  Get Mike Day to help draft language. 4. See if UDCs have any Thoughts Steve Kean will communicate with UDCs to see if they have any solutions or thougths.  Probably of limited value. 5. Update List Any new information on this should be communicated to the following people as soon as possible.  These people should update their respective business units. ENA Legal - Christian Yoder / Travis McCullough Credit - Michael Tribolet EES - Vicki Sharp / Don Black ENA - Tim Belden / Philip Allen Govt Affairs - Steve Kean / Richard Shapiro 
As a reminder, the daily call on California has ended. We will now have a single weekly call on Monday at 10:30 am Houston time. Updates will be provided through e-mail as required. Jim Steffes 
As a reminder, the daily call on California has ended. We will now have a single weekly call on Monday at 10:30 am Houston time. Updates will be provided through e-mail as required. Jim Steffes 
Enron has agreed that the key issue is to focus on solving the S-T buying needs.  Attached is a spreadsheet that outlines the $ magnitude of the next few months. TALKING POINTS: Lot's of questions about DWR becoming the  vehicle for S-T buying and there is a significant legal risk for it becoming the vehicle.  WE DO NEED SOMETHING TO BRIDGE BEFORE WE PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS. Huge and growing shortfall ($3.2B through March 31, 2001) The SOONER YOU CAN PUT IN L-T CONTRACTS STOP THE BLEEDING. Bankruptcy takes all authority out of the Legislature's hands. ACTION ITEMS: 1. Energy Sales Participation Agreement During Bankruptcy Michael Tribolet will be contacting John Klauberg to discuss how to organize a Participation Agreement to sell to UDCs in Bankruptcy while securing Super Priority. 2. Legislative Language for CDWR (?) Buying Short-Term Sandi McCubbin / Jeff Dasovich will lead team to offer new language to meet S-T requirements of UDCs.  Key is to talk with State of California Treasurer to see if the $ can be found or provided to private firms.  ($3.5B by end of April).  Pat Boylston will develop ""public benefit"" language for options working with Mike Day.  He can be reached at 503-294-9116 or pgboylston@stoel.com. 3. Get Team to Sacramento Get with Hertzberg to discuss the options (Bev Hansen).  Explain the magnitude of the problem.  Get Mike Day to help draft language. 4. See if UDCs have any Thoughts Steve Kean will communicate with UDCs to see if they have any solutions or thougths.  Probably of limited value. 5. Update List Any new information on this should be communicated to the following people as soon as possible.  These people should update their respective business units. ENA Legal - Christian Yoder / Travis McCullough Credit - Michael Tribolet EES - Vicki Sharp / Don Black ENA - Tim Belden / Philip Allen Govt Affairs - Steve Kean / Richard Shapiro 
Jeff -- It would be helpful to get some feedback prior to starting to deal with the fundamental question related to direct access for smaller customers.  I would like to know Teece's perspective on the role of government in this marketplace.  In addition, I think that the paper must deal with the drawbacks of having mixed roles - utility default supply and competitive markets. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/15/2001 03:11 PM 
choice Greetings: As I've mentioned, I've been discussing with a group of academics (principally from UC Berkeley) the possibility of producing an analysis of why it makes sense to move forward toward de-regulation, and makes no sense to turn back to command-and-control regulation.  Clearly, we're at a fork in the policy road---move forward, or go back. I've (finally) gotten a proposal from the group.  It's attached.  Please take a look.  I'd like to distribute more widely internally for comment, but wanted to run it through a preliminary screen to guage whether folks think it would be useful before cluttering up folks' in-boxes with more emails to read.  Few points worth mentioning: The majority of the academics that would do the report are affiliated with LECG, Inc., the consulting group that I worked with prior to joing Enron. List also includes Dan McFadden, UC Berkeley nobel prize winner who wrote the recent op-ed piece in the WSJ. The list also includes Hogan and Joskow  and Borenstein.  We could certainly exclude these folks should we choose to go forward with the analysis. However, the goal is to produce a high level analysis, i.e., ""de-regulation is good and can work; command and control regulation is bad and we know that it does not work.""  Once the study is released (if it is pursued), the ""authors"" could tour the country, testifying before federal and state bodies to advocate the virtues of de-regulation and the pitfalls of reversing course.  The analysis would not be a debate over ""To Poolco, or not to Poolco, PJM, etc.""  In this way, including folks like Joskow and Hogan could offer the added benefit of creating a ""Nixon goes to China"" scenario.  Please take a look at the list of participants.  Again, we can add to and subtract from the list. Laura Tyson would be one of the two project leaders. (The other would be David Teece, Chairman of LECG.) None of the folks on the list occupies either extreme of the political spectrum.  It's a mix of D's and R's who are arguably centrist economist and strong believers in markets (I won't vouch for Joskow and Hogan). The idea would be to get a wide array of industry participants from across the country to support the project.  This is for two reasons:  1) the more diverse the group supporting the effort, the greater the credibility, and 2) they are asking for about $1 million to do the study. If you think it would be useful to pursue the study as part of our national campaign to minimize the damage created by California, I would like to start immediately to approach trade associations, companies, customers, etc. nationwide to garner support for the project. Let me know if you think the effort would be worthwhile.  Appreciate your comments. Best, Jeff 
Jeff & Miyung - Steve Kean would like to build a database of offers made to California that were rejected last year.  This would become public information to give to the Bush Administration, Capitol Hill, etc. 1. Peaking Offers / Plants (incld Calpine) - Jeff can you work with Parquet to build this. 2. Terms sales to SDG&E last year - Miyung can you run a press clipping report to show what was not taken.  Also, Jeff can you please get the full details (MW, Price, Term) for our offer to SDG&E last year. Thanks.  Please call with questions. 
----- Message from ""Tracey Bradley"" <tbradley@bracepatt.com> on Fri, 16 Mar 2001 09:01:51 -0600 ----- 
Thursday March 15, 9:14 pm Eastern Time Edison Creditor Secures Plant Lien By LESLIE GORNSTEIN AP Business Writer LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Breaking away from a pack of creditors owed billions by Southern California Edison, Caithness Energy got permission Wednesday to secure a lien against one of the utility's plants. The judgment lets the New York-based electricity supplier to attach a partial claim on an Edison facility in Laughlin, Nev. -- a move that could spur bigger creditors to launch similarly aggressive approaches or even force Edison into bankruptcy. Caithness, which has two Nevada plants owed $20 million by Edison, was allowed to attach the lien by U.S. District Judge Lloyd George of Las Vegas. Once it becomes final in the next few days, the claim will be the first lien successfully placed against an Edison asset since California's energy crisis began last year. An Edison spokesman said the utility will seek a stay of the order next week. A lien allows a creditor a better chance of getting paid by laying claim to all or a portion of any future sale of a property. The judge allowed Caithness to file for a 56 percent interest in the plant, which employs 309 people and is valued at $530 million. The energy was used by Edison to feed California's energy grid, Caithness attorney Philip Korologos said Thursday. Edison owes Caithness a total of $100 million, and another $20 million bill will come due at the end of March, Korologos said. ``They took delivery of the power and they are supposed to pay us for the power,'' Korologos said. But whether Caithness will go after Edison's California assets is far from certain. Korologos said he believed that some form of additional mediation is required for California liens that might make such an option less attractive in the utility's home state. Edison's bigger creditors, including Reliant Energy of Houston, declined to speculate on whether they will employ a similar tactic. But industry experts said that the Caithness move could cause other, bigger creditors to feel pressure to act more aggressively on behalf of shareholders. The law requires only three major creditors to band together to force Edison into involuntary bankruptcy; the utility has said it does not intend to file on its own. So far, most creditors have chosen to simply wait, or ``forbear,'' on the Edison debts, having fielded repeated pleas by Edison to do so. At least four creditors or groups of creditors have sued the utility for money owed but have taken no further action. A New York-based creditor last month unsuccessfully tried to attach a lien to an Edison bank account without success, an Edison spokesman said. Edison's problems began last year when, under California's 1996 deregulation law, investor-owned utilities were forced to buy power on the soaring spot market while limiting the rates they could charge consumers. Edison and fellow utility Pacific Gas & Electric say they owe creditors a combined $14 billion. 
We may also want language that limits the ""rate shock"" of this type of activity to EES' customers? Janel, can you add to Monday's call agenda. Jim 
AB 25 creates the Electric Rate Stabilization Auhtority which can arrange financing for the utilities' overpayment debt which is defined as the liabilities incurred between 6/1/00 and 3/31/01 through purchases of electricity from generators or other providers other than themselves, parent companies, affiliates,or subdivisions, for which ratepayer revenues were insufficient to pay.  This is one of those bills where your eyes glaze over, but I think the one area where we may have an issue, or desire clarification, is Article 5, PUC ratesetting.  The bill says that the PUC shall fix rates for the 3 utilities that provide them with sufficient revenues to pay the amounts assessed (by the Stabilization folks).  I think we would like language exempting direct access customers from these assessments in the bill 
Ratemaking has gotten no easier.  Maybe we can get the Government to realize that they can't even set rates for the little bit of retained generation without huge litigation? Jim 
The only one that I don't see is the SDG&E offer from Parquet last year. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/19/2001 08:24 PM 
Jim: Attached is a fairly distilled summary of the projects Enron's offered to the utilities, DWR and the ISO over the past 9-12 months, or so.  With respect to the power contracts offered to the IOUs, only the offers accepted by PG&E and Edison are included---the desk doesn't keep records of offers rejected, only offers accepted.  However, I'm fairly confident that I can dig deeper and get more info on the other power deals offered to Edison, PG&E and SDG&E if folks would like that information.  Just let me know. Prices are included for the offers that had prices attached when submitted. Best, Jeff 
Jeff -- Can you please develop a list of questions for Legislative members to ask in the Gas hearing? I would give the soft ball questions to PG&E and SoCal Gas and focus on the CPUC as the problems. 
I also heard that Mike Day is working on some thoughts - coordinate with him please. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/21/2001 09:51 AM 
FYI:  The City of Long Beach has now joined in the law suits.  They've sued SoCalGas and El Paso claiming (like the others who've sued) that the two conspired to ""kill competition"" and drive up prices.  I think that we can expect that topic to get some airtime, since the TURN's, Harvey's, UCAN's etc. of the world will likely be steering all the Democrats. I'll throw some questions together; but won't be till the end of the day. Best, Jeff James D Steffes 03/20/2001 06:23 PM 
Jeff -- Can you please develop a list of questions for Legislative members to ask in the Gas hearing? I would give the soft ball questions to PG&E and SoCal Gas and focus on the CPUC as the problems. Jim 
EFFICIENT BUILDINGS -- EES Wins $1.5 million 
FYI.  I think that the press on Gov. Davis is a bit misleading. Jim 
EFFICIENT BUILDINGS -- EES Wins $1.5 million FYI 
Shouldn't it be us? Jim ""Jeffrey Watkiss"" <dwatkiss@bracepatt.com> 03/21/2001 02:29 PM ? ? ? ? 
? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? The California Power Exchange has filed a complaint for declaratory relief against the California Independent System Operator. ?The case description from our tracking service reads as follows: Plaintiff seeks a declaration that defendant lacks the legal right to hold the $177 million in funds remitted to the ISO by PG&E in response to invoices transmitted to PG&E by plaintiff in connection with obligations incurred in December 2000 by PG&E in the ISO's markets. 
This should give LEGC something to shoot at - I love the statment ""In fact, a good case can be made that, given market conditions, consumers would have saved as much or more under effective regulation, without exposing them to price spike risk"".  Isn't this the crux of the argument. Jim 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
Joe Hartsoe - My understanding is that Hebert doesn't have the legal authority (and the filing never makes clear) to Suspend performance under the PPA (he probably doesn't have the political support for this either). EPSA, however, could support this in its filing as a method to help move the QF issue forward. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/20/2001 10:04 AM 
We are trying to set up energy purchasing arrangements with QFs who get temporarily released from their contracts.  Take a look at the e-mail below and see if we can suport them. Thanks C 
FYI. 
? The legislature will meet and vote to repeal Section 390 of AB 1890.  This will reverse what the QFs get  paid from natural gas costs and replace it with the formula in the governor's current plan - 7.9 cents/kwh for 5-year contracts and 6.9 cents/kwh for 10-year  contracts.  According to sources, this is ""locked in to pass.""  It  will be implemented by a PUC order on Monday. ? The QFs met on this plan all day yesterday and have calculated what they would get paid.   This  plan would not generate enough money for many QFs to operate profitably.  At  least 2,000 MW of the total 5,407 MW of gas-fired QFs would be unable to generate  a positive cash flow and would have to either operate unprofitably or shut down. ? The QF community is responding with an increased militancy for an involuntary filing, according to sources.  The most aggressive QF after Coram Energy is David Sokol and Walter Scott of Mid-America Energy (based in 
Executive Summary: ? The as yet unnumbered rescue bill by Davis made it to the Senate floor ? An exemption of the gas-fired QFs from this bill (as proposed by Sen. Keeley) could further forestall an involuntary bankruptcy filing. ? If passed, the draft CPUC order would give the utilities another 15 days after rate hikes to pay the QFs ? The negotiations with the QFs are complicated by the issue of payments owed by the utilities to the DWR. Senators are demanding that the utilities set up a trust fund from rate revenues to pay back the DWR. ? The CalEnergy ruling (as reported by Bloomberg this PM) is an attractive option for other QFs looking to at least temporarily escape long-term supply contracts with Edison. ? If neither the CPUC nor the legislature exempts the gas-fired generators from the new rate structure, an immediate involuntary bankruptcy filing is expected.  However, if the exemption is implemented, then a bankruptcy filing would be delayed. 1. ""QF Bill"" Makes it to Senate Floor The ""CPUC bill"" (the number is not yet known) is in mock-up form and does the following: * Repeals PUC Code section 390, which set a formula for QFs under deregulation. * Amends portions of AB 1X which will ensure that DWR receives money for its power purchases, and includes provisions for the issuance of bonds. * Includes a provision for SDG&E rates since they were not covered under other legislation. The bill passed the Senate Energy (8-2), and also just passed the Senate Appropriations Committee (8-2) and is headed to the Senate Floor. 2. Senator Comments on the Bill: Keeley (author of bill) presented that the bill would allow the PUC to decide the QF contracts which is the proper authority  to debate the issue. Most of the opposition to this portion of the bill was regarding the fact that the bill provides no guidance to the PUC regarding voided costs for natural gas-fired QFs.  Republicans offered an amendment to not have section 390 repealed for gas-fired generators, but Keeley had concerns with the amendment.  Keeley stated that he did not think they should limit the PUC's flexibility and that as drafted the amendment was too broad.  He also indicated that gas-fired utilities have a legitimate issue with the draft order.  He said that the PUC order needs to be amended, and Keeley is confident that the PUC has recognized that in discussion over the past 48 hours. 3. Opponents to the QF Bill: The following people testified in opposition to QF portion:  TURN, Delta Power (QF), Syke Energy, John Hancock Financial, California Manufacturers Association, Crockett Cogeneration, Independent Energy Producers, Clean Power Campaign, PG&E, SCE. The gas-fired QFs that testified in opposition noted that they have been off-line for a couple of months and cannot come back on-line unless their issues are addressed. In response to the QFs not getting paid, Sen. Bowen stated that if the utilities do not pay the QFs as directed under the draft order, then she would personally see to it that they go into bankruptcy. 4. PG&E and SCE Testimony: Sen. Battin asked both utilities about the draft order, which states that after the change in the rates by QFs the utilities must pay the QFs within 15 days, and whether the utilities would abide by the order. PG&E's response was that they are receiving $400 million per month, the cost of their own generation is $100 million, and the QF amount is $240 million per month; the draft order would lower the QF cost to $140 million.   PG&E was cut off at this point and asked point blank whether their answer to Battin's question was ""yes or no.""  Battin, Bowen and Murray all asked whether it was yes or no.  The PG&E rep stated that it would be ""no"" if the issue of the payments owed to ISO and DWR is not resolved.  If the ISO costs of purchases were included in the DWR payments, then PG&E would not have a problem. The SCE response was that if the money coming in was less than the money going out, then it could not comply with the PUC order. 5.  Payments to DWR Senator Sher then asked both utilities regarding a requirement under AB 1X that the utilities set aside those moneys that are owed to the DWR for purchasing power that they collect from ratepayers in a trust fund those. SCE responded that they are still in negotiations with DWR on the terms and conditions.  Several legislators responded angrily that this was not part of the bill, and that they should have a trust fund set up.  PG&E noted that they are setting 'some' money aside, but would not state how much. Sen. Sher ended the conversation by stating that if the utilities do not set up a trust fund by tomorrow they would either pass emergency legislation or 'go after them' for violating the law. 1X Provisions: Tim Gage from Dept. of Finance noted the Governor's support of the entire bill, and noted that the 1X provisions would ensure that DWR gets paid. PG&E also testified in opposition to these provisions. Senator Bowen made the following statements: * Senator Peace has announced that he has received another notice of $500 million appropriation needed to purchase power and will not approve the funding unless PG&E and SCE drop their challenge to the PUC regarding the DWR issue. * Also stated that the PUC could always raise rates as a way to resolve the issue. 
Pls give me a call. Jim 
Attached please find some notes for the 3/26 4:00PM CST meeting. 
Alan -- Not sure if the West Desk is interested in Demand Bidding issues with the ISO, but wanted you to loop around with the commercial people to see if there are any specific problems with the current ISO programs. Please communicate any issues with Harry Kingerski. Jim 
We are working to get demand bidding into CA legislation (AB31X).  The ISO wants from us our laundry list of issues of why their existing programs are inadequate.  This is a great opportunity to influence them. Neil and Jubran, could you give us your specific issues and suggestions?  Jay and Fred, any suggestions would be great from you also. We will set up a call for Monday at 4 pm CST to discuss and will get phone number out to you.  Thanks. 
Mike, etal -- I wanted  to get your perspectives on the idea that the CPUC will raise rates tomorrow?  Is this legal, without any notice? Did the CPUC give notice on its prior Emergency Surcharge action? What else should happen tomorrow at CPUC meeting?  Most importantly, what is happening with DWR need for more clarity?  I would really appreciate a copy of the March 7 CPUC Decision on DWR issues. Please respond or call at 713-853-7673. Thanks, Jim 
Attached is a list of parties the Cal ISO has identified in an earlier report that had ""overcharged"" the market from May - Nov 2000 (the filing was mistakenly put into the FERC docket room). EES is listed as party B8 with $27.9 MM as Excessive Rents. The biggest overcharger was BC Powerex with $176.2 MM. We are still analyzing the implications of this list and will get out any other information. Jim 
Attached is a fax I received of a filing the ISO made yesterday afternoon to supplement its comments in Docket No. EL00-95-012 regarding market monitoring and mitigation.  The filing links the names of the suppliers and importers discussed in Dr. Sheffrin's analysis to the code numbers used in yesterday's filing.  The ISO had requested confidential treatment.  The fax is in TIFF format and you can disregard the first page as it is a cover sheet to me. Please let me know if you have any questions or need anything else. Nancy 
Tracy -- Here is our first draft.  I am checking with other Govt Affairs personnel to incorporate their thoughts. Jim Tracy Ngo@ECT 03/27/2001 07:11 PM 
That would be great.  The DASH format is ever-changing wrt to other moving parts so no worries.  -Thanks, Tracy 
I'll have our comments first thing in the am.  Hope that is ok. Jim 
FYI. 
Given the status of Phase I of DWR possibly being extended to the end of April, we will not be circulating a DASH at this time for the five-year DWR swaption.  Will advise at a later date of any developments. Thanks all for your help for now. Regards, 
FYI.  DWR declines to extend option (which is amazing because our deal is one of the few deals that would help CA - lower prices today). Jim 
FYI - we proposed several alternatives to DWR that would effectively extend our put swaption through the end of April for a cost to ENA of approximately $5MM.  None of those were acceptable to DWR.  The option will therefore expire at 5:00 PPT today.  Vikram Budraja, Advisor to Gov Davis, suggested that we are not dealing in good faith and suggested that he will speak with Ken Lay (we have heard this several dozen times).  In any event, I expect to talk with DWR tomorrow to propose  a short-term transaction.  They might 
Is there any way that this group of people (and other people who may want to participate) can begin to have weekly conference calls to keep everyone fully in the loop on what is happening and needs to happen going forward related to wholesale activities - gas & power? When things settle down (will that ever happen?), maybe weekly calls won't be necessary.  But given the pace and intensity of matters, we should try and coordinate through a 30 minute call.  I suggest Friday afternoon (3pm Houston) - that should give us the ability to make sure the right RCRs are submitted for discussion Monday am. Also, Sue Mara has been keeping a catalog of activities on Power Wholesale matters.  (1) Sue can you please send it out to all of these people, (2) Sue. should we let the DC team - Ray and Donna - keep the catalog to make sure that we are organized before FERC?  Appreciate your thoughts. Let me know.  I'll ask Marcia to try and put this together for this Friday and going forward. Jim 
Any info? Jim 
Jim, I have been hearing 95% probabilities that the bonds get issued.  Is that your view? Chris 
Tracy -- Here is our first draft.  I am checking with other Govt Affairs personnel to incorporate their thoughts. Jim Tracy Ngo@ECT 03/27/2001 07:11 PM 
That would be great.  The DASH format is ever-changing wrt to other moving parts so no worries.  -Thanks, Tracy 
I'll have our comments first thing in the am.  Hope that is ok. Jim 
FYI.  May want to cover. Jim 
----- Message from ""Tracey Bradley"" <tbradley@bracepatt.com> on Wed, 28 Mar 2001 17:14:17 -0600 ----- 
FYI US House panel sets April hearings on Calif crisis ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- WASHINGTON, March 28 (Reuters) - The U.S. House Government Reform Committee said Wednesday it would hold three field hearings in California next month on the economic fallout from the state's chronic electricity shortages. The hearings will take place on April 10 in Sacramento, April 11 in San Jose, and April 12 in San Diego. California, which has struggled to keep the lights on since last autumn, is widely expected to face blackouts during the peak power demand months of the summer. On Tuesday, state regulators approved an average 40 percent increase in consumer electricity rates to cover the soaring cost of energy and pump more cash into the state's near-bankrupt utilities. ""The energy crisis in California has ramifications for the entire 
Proposals 
Proposals We have filed comments in support (see attachments) of Kern River's emergency expansion proposal to add 135,000 Mcf/d of capacity through temporary compressors and El Paso's request to keep the compressors that had originally requested to abandon in their oil pipeline conversion application which will add 230,000 Mcf/d of capacity on their south system.   In-service dates would be July 1 for Kern River and August 1 for El Paso, assuming expeditious treatment of the applications at FERC and no problems with permits. Kern River held an open season for their expansion and ENA was awarded about 3,700 Dth/d.  The El Paso capacity will not be contracted to individual shippers, but will be used for system flexibility and to cover outages on the system this summer when they start testing as required after the explosion last year. El Paso 
Alan-- Pls use Jennifer Thome. Jim 
I think I have the basic data to do an estimate of interconnection benefits. Flow data is summarized in the attached chart. It'll take a day or so of someone's time to crank out the benefit calculation.  It's a little tricky lining up the gas and power data. Jim is there an access/excel jockey I could tap for such help?  Otherwise I'm going to plea for some external help. 
1. PG&E Bankruptcy Update PX Credit Discussion Creditors Committee Issues Enron Response - Legal, PR, Other 2. Legislative Update 3. CPUC Update 
FYI.  Today's update. 
Here are some thoughts on what our message may be.=20 Unclear how this is going to increase supply, decrease demand, and increase= =20 customer choice.  Still doesn't make sense to us to have the state buy a=20 crumbling transmission network instead of school lunches. We don't have enough details.  There are several aspects that are interesti= ng=20 and could use further study.  Governor Davis needs to make the details publ= ic=20 as soon as possible so people can understand the full implications.  For=20 instance, what happens to DWR contracts?  Will they be assigned to SCE?  Wi= ll=20 customers have the right to choose going forward? The recent events highlight the critical need to make sure that customers c= an=20 make their own energy decisions going forward.  We know that Government=20 doesn't know how to get this right.  The right answer is giving customers= =20 more choices, not fewer. Can't endorse it until we know if our bills are going to be paid in full.  = If=20 the bills aren't paid in full, highly likely that we'll see involuntary=20 bankruptcy. Too bad that this deal wasn't done earlier.  It could have saved alot of=20 money and pain. Why do you need to include the transmission purchase in this deal?  May nev= er=20 happen.  Make it easy - just deal with the under collection through=20 securitization and throught the EIX refund to SCE and get on with it. =20 Jim 
In discussions with the Administration, it has become clear that there would be great political value in being able to  demonstrate (a) the economic value of open access for the US and (b) the impact open access would have on the current energy crisis. Enron has developed historical analysis of the impact of deregulation on natural gas.  Margaret Carson is putting together some slides that show (1) throughput improvements, (2) expansion in pipeline capacity, and (3) cost reductions in the industry.  While not exactly identical, there are some good reasons to assume that the same would occur in the electricity industry. It would be great if you could develop a general qualitative framework that would outline why open access is preferable in the very short-term and work on a larger quantitative framework over the medium-term. To that end, Richard Tabors of TCA had earlier analyzed the economic loss from AEP's abuse of its transmission network last year.  He may have additional insights into developing this concept. Please call me with further questions at 713-853-7673. 
Jeff, Sue & Harry -- Michael and I are both in SF on Monday evening.  We were talking about getting together some time in the evening to put together a framework of our case around the Negative CTC in ""bankruptcy"" terms. Does everyone agree and does the time work? 
Margaret Carson has put together a great piece (including slides) that needs to be finalized so that we can get it put together to explain California. I have checked the material.  It looks fine.  My next thought is to ask someone from PR to work it up from a graphics/layout perspective. Also, the California team should have final sign-off. I will ask Marcia Linton to fax (or send by e-mail) it out to everyone on this list and get our next steps. Jim P.S.  If people are not aware, Margaret Carson is retiring from Enron.  Her 
Janel -- I have this on the SCE deal.  Don't know if the CA team has officially=20 blessed this messaging? Jim 
Here are some thoughts on what our message may be.=20 Unclear how this is going to increase supply, decrease demand, and increase= =20 customer choice.  Still doesn't make sense to us to have the state buy a=20 crumbling transmission network instead of school lunches. We don't have enough details.  There are several aspects that are interesti= ng=20 and could use further study.  Governor Davis needs to make the details publ= ic=20 as soon as possible so people can understand the full implications.  For=20 instance, what happens to DWR contracts?  Will they be assigned to SCE?  Wi= ll=20 customers have the right to choose going forward? The recent events highlight the critical need to make sure that customers c= an=20 make their own energy decisions going forward.  We know that Government=20 doesn't know how to get this right.  The right answer is giving customers= =20 more choices, not fewer. Can't endorse it until we know if our bills are going to be paid in full.  = If=20 the bills aren't paid in full, highly likely that we'll see involuntary=20 bankruptcy. Too bad that this deal wasn't done earlier.  It could have saved alot of=20 money and pain. Why do you need to include the transmission purchase in this deal?  May nev= er=20 happen.  Make it easy - just deal with the under collection through=20 securitization and throught the EIX refund to SCE and get on with it. =20 Jim 
In the meeting today, no decision was made about what to do with Enron's 16,000 residential customers.   Each of the contracts gives a basic 30 day out right to Enron. That being said, I think that we have a short window to push for DA before any public action impacts us in Sacramento. I realize that the ultimate action (which I think is inevitable) makes it harder for our advocacy on DA, but real $ are flowing out of the company. EES will give us notice when a decision is reached. Thanks, 
I think that Margaret's analysis may cover much of this (not the Enron specific action). Jim Janel Guerrero 04/03/2001 01:07 PM 
Guys, Our friends at Environmental and Energy Analysis sent this email around regarding the gas shortage in CA.  They might be useful for us in terms of analysis, prepartion etc.  Or is MRW already providing us with this type of assistance? 
besides electricity, there is an equal and related upcoming meltdown on gas in california.  our assessment is that the current high prices are largely a result of intrastate constraints that will be exacerbated as gas use for power generation increases.  for this summer it is possible that there will be generating constraints due to inadequate gas delivery capacity.  a more likely outcome is that power generators will get the gas they need at the expense of storage injection for winter heating load.  this will create supply problems and higher residential gas problems next winter.  summer prices for industrial gas users will also be higher. a possible solution is to take advantage of fuel switching.  many of the california plants are old oil/gas plants and have the capacity to switch fuels.  they are currently limited by environmental limits.  it might be in california's broader interests to allow some flexibility on switching this summer to ensure power reliability and adequate gas storage for the winter. reasons for possible interest for enron - better power reliability this summer, possible gas/oil trading opportunities, emissions trading opportunities?, other? since oil is much cheaper than the currently high california gas prices, this option would also increase the profitability of the plants that switch fuels.  it's not clear whether this helps Enron.  one option would be to require very clean oil since the market will bear significant cost. there are a few questions related to this: how tight will gas be this summer?  what are the likely impacts without switching?  are the plants still oil-capable? let me know if this is something you are interested in discussing. Joel Bluestein Energy and Environmental Analysis, Inc. Phone 703-528-1900 Fax 703-528-5106 
Not sure if anyone is interested, but please call Jeff Dasovich for more info. Jim 
THIS IS AMAZING.  THE GUY MUST BE SMOKING CRACK COCAINE.  I AM SO GLAD THAT= I=20 DON'T HAVE TO LIVE IN A STATE THAT IS THIS F!#(@(* STUPID.  MAYBE WE SHOULD= ?GO AROUND IN THE NUDE TO KEEP COOL - PROBABLY RAISE THE THERMOSTAT ANOTHE= 
. ??FYI.  More on the Governor's comprehensive energy crisis management pla= 
Governor's office has reached out to the Silicon Valley Manufacturing?Group= to assist them in understanding the needs and concerns of the business?com= munity.  One very important aspect of the energy issue is that of?conservat= ion.  In an attempt to understand the usage patterns of business?and their = efforts towards conservation, the Governor's office asked that we?implement= this quick survey.  Please take a moment to answer the following?questions= and return to me via e-mail by 4:30 this evening.  By completing?this surv= ey we will help the Governor address our needs.???-Please indicate at what = temperature your company has historically kept the?thermostat set.???-Pleas= e indicate where your company expects to keep the thermostat set given?the = current conditions.?????*PLEASE NOTE*?All information received through this= survey will remain confidential.  SVMG?continues to protect the interests = of its member companies.  This survey in?no way demeans that obligation.  A= ll information provided to any party will?be anonymous.  Thank you for taki= ng the time to complete this survey.  Given?the urgency of the current situ= ation and its constantly changing nature, I?apologize for the short time fr= 
Not good news from Canada.  Power lines are full when appropriate.  Just Powerex's power. Jim 
I will plan on attending weekly.  Let me know if anyone else should go? Jim 
Not sure if you had seen this information.  Looks like if the SCE deal is approved, SCE would assume CDWR contracts. Jim 
SCE held a conference call this morning to discuss the  Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) related to the sale of its transmission assets with members of the investment community.  After a  brief description of major provisions of the MOU, questions were taken.  Following is a summary of that call. Major Components of Plan (repeatedly referred to as the ""Governor's Plan"") Maintains cost-of-service treatment for utility retained generation for 10 years Sale of transmission assets (or other assets) to CDWR Dedication of the ""Sunrise"" generation project to cost-of-service based rates for 10 years ($2 mm penalty if not on-line by August) Provision of easements and potential conveyances in fee of certain lands (at two hydro projects) Provides for full recovery of $3.5 B utility net underrecovery as of 1/31/01 Commits SCE to spend $3 B in capital expenditures over 5 years Dismissal of federal lawsuits by SCE SCE will resume traditional utility procurement obligations by 1/1/03, assuming CDWR contracts and entering into new purchase contracts as necessary It was stressed that the MOU was a comprehensive plan to be treated as an integrated package.  While the CPUC and members of the legislature were involved in various stages of the negotiation, the agreement is technically between SCE and CDWR.  Various regulatory and legislative approvals are necessary for implementation of the MOU.  SCE has rights to terminate the MOU if the CPUC  has not adopted specified ""implementing decisions"" within 60 days.  Legislation necessary to implement certain provisions of the MOU must be passed by August 15. For ratemaking purposes the CPUC will grant SCE a 11.6% ROE on its generation and distribution rate base. Questions and Answers What was expected timing of return to investment grade for SCE? Up to the rating agencies.  Many steps to go through.  It is assumed agencies will be following closely but timing is uncertain.  Would have to be before utility resumes power procurement obligations. Applicability of 11.6% ROE? ROE would increase from current 7% ROE to level no less than 11.6% for both generation and distribution assets on unamortized balance at 12/31/00 and capital structure roughly at 50/50. Potential for write-offs? While plan calls for full recovery of net undercollections as of 1/31/01, because of timing issues SCE may take a write-off then have a ""write-up"" at a later date. Interest in how/why/impact of inclusion of Mission Sunrise generation project (investor concern over market v. regulated returns)? The state was looking at all options for long-term power contracts.  Market returns traded for security of long-term contract. What will be source for $3 b capital investments over next 5 years? Capital would come from retained earnings, borrowing and additional investments from holding company. Concern over ability of existing rate level (and ""waterfall"" disbursement) to recover all costs especially if CDWR procurement costs increase? Existing rates should cover all costs.  Provisions in MOU allow adjustment to rates to maintain investment grade status. What was gained from MOU as opposed to pursuit through the courts? Speed and certainty with respect to resolution of outstanding issues. Will the sale be a taxable event? Yes. What is the URG unit cost? $.042 per kwH. In 2003 would SCE have ability to replace contracts of CDWR (when SCE resumes procurement role)? SCE would have ability to enter into new contracts, but would not ignore obligations under CDWR contracts.  New contracts would be subject to PUC prudence review.  SCE would file procurement plan with the PUC. 
Jay -- I wanted to talk with first thing on Friday about our decision to weigh in with testimony in this case.  Forgetting the question Legal may or may not have (let's assume they don't have any concerns) about Scott testifying, it is still my opinion that we should not file testimony. First, I assume that you have already marked your book to the Lynch ""thoughts"" on rate design and revenue allocation included in the initial Order.   I make this assumption, because the loss to EES has already occurred and our goal now is to try and bring back some of the value by (a) focusing on revenue sharing and (b) rate design.  Scott indicates that the loss could be $100MM with bad outcomes on the 2 key issues.  My purpose of EES' activity is to try and minimize that number.  I feel that a quiet but forceful role in the case is the best vehicle given our recent troubles in CA and before the CPUC. Second, I am not sure that Govt Affairs is comfortable with Scott's model of rate design.  While tiering of rates is on the table, the question of demand reduction payback under his framework could result in customers using 70% of their load and paying nothing.  That hardly makes sense.  Now maybe we just don't understand, but putting in testimony that is unclear or confusing isn't going to win the day before the CPUC. Third, most of our victory will come from aligning with the big users.  If we are supporting / defending our own testimony (which they haven't seen), I think that our ability to work through a Settlement will be limited.  Our goal is to ""pick and choose"" from the best solutions proposed while trying to highlight other options through cross-examination (granted, this may be very hard). Fourth, someone may try to get EES to weigh in on the allocation of these costs to DA customers.  We have agreed not to take on that issue.  Scott doesn't get to use the Fifth Amendment to not answer. Scott and his team is preparing testimony.  Give me a call.  If Scott and you are intent on moving forward, we'll do as you see fit within the other constraints. Jim 
Here are the arguments / material that I am trying to round up by mid-day Friday.  Please add anything else to this to prove our point. Enron's Agenda - Making the System More Reliable / Ending the Crisis 1. Supply - really four key pieces to the puzzle (1) Streamline Generation Interconnection, (2) Mandatory Electricity Reliability Organization, (3) Public Power Transmission Facilities Fully Under FERC, (4) Complete Open Access - End the Native Load Exception The key theme:  Open Access ""expands"" the available generation and reduces the overall need to build. 2. Demand - Industrial & Commercial Demand Buydown The key theme:  Sometimes the cheapest watt is the watt that isn't used. I want to add that I still think that the right message is reliability AND cost savings.  In California, the electricity bill could go from $7 billion/year (1999) to $70 billion/year (2001).   No matter how big your economy is, there is no way that a price shock of that magnitude won't kill your future growth. KEY PROOF 1. HEPG Presentation    Shapiro 2. Natural Gas Analysis   Carson 3. Balkanization Analysis   Walton/Comnes/Neustaedter 4. AEP Transmission Abuses  Novosel 5. FERC Staff Report Anecdotes  Novosel 6. TCA Analysis - Price Impact  Pickel/Tabors 7. TCA Analysis - Expanding Supply Pickel/Tabors 8. Western Power Market Abuses  Dasovich/Comnes I will try and call everyone in the am to discuss. Jim 
Who is taking the lead on responding to these Filings?  Will EPMI and EES need to file separately from IEP, EPSA, and/or WPTF? Thanks. 
I am not completely convinced that our attendence would be constructive. First, I assume that we can enter testimony into the docket without being a witness at this hearing.  Second, the way the hearing has two groups (a) good guys with facts finding the guilty and (b) the apologists for the guilty makes it difficult for me to know which panel I would recommend that we join.   Our message doesn't seek to find blame just solutions.  Finally, given the upcoming FERC hearing, why not make our case in that process where I think the witch hunt mentality won't be so high? I can be persuaded otherwise on this case.   Either way, however, my assumption is that we need to work toward getting FERC informed and ready to do the right thing and manage the CPUC and other CA issues to do no harm. Jim Jeff Dasovich 09/05/2000 03:33 PM 
Given that the hearing is Friday, we'll need to decide pretty quickly. Might be useful to discuss on a call first thing tomorrow AM?  We'll want to assure that our message is tracks consistently with message J. Skilling will be delivering this week and with other messages we'llbe delivering (e.g., FERC inquiry).  Also, attached are some messages that Jim distributed following a focus group conducted in Orange County. Mona L Petrochko 09/05/2000 03:14 PM 
I spoke w/ Bill Julian, Cmmr. Wood's Advisor, about the hearing that is being held on Friday, September 8 in San Diego.  There will be a morning panel and an afternoon panel.  The morning panel will discuss ""pricing behavior/patterns"" and the afternoon panel will provide explanations/refutations of the morning presentations.  I'm not sure yet who will be speaking, but I have inquired from Steve Weisman, who appears to be heading this effort. Do we want an Enron representative on the panel?  Who would be the best witness? While this investigation has the opportunity to turn into a witch hunt, I am also concerned about the record being developed in such a way as to lead to the conclusion that Wood, or the legislature, have in mind.  This could mean an attempt by the Commission to assert more regulation in the market, assert more state (vs. federal) jurisdiction, build a case for collapsing the ISO/PX into one organization, or hang blame on generators and scheduling coordinators. I think Tim and Mary's presentation would be very effective in showing the other (real) side of the story. The following is an exerpt from the pre-hearing conference transcript held on 8/28 from Cmmr Wood: 27               I am not going to sit here and say that it's not 28    an appropriate time to assign blame.  If there has been 1    wrongdoing, we will assign blame.  We will ferret out the 2    wrongdoers, and we will bring them to account to the 3    greatest of our ability. 4               But I think that, as Judge Wetzell pointed out, 5    the scope of this proceeding is quite broad.  We are not 6    only addressing the immediate issues, but we are also 7    addressing the underlying problems of this market which 8    clearly is not functioning, which clearly is broken. 9               We have to look at problems with the structure of 10    the market, we have to look at problems with the behavior of 11    market participants; and getting beyond the wholesale 12    market, we have to look at the interaction with the retail 13    market because, after all, that's where the pain actually 14    occurs.  That's what consumers themselves face. 15               There are probably implications for the long-term 16    viability of California's utilities that are connected with 17    this proceeding, and we have to get into that.  And for that 18    reason, as well as the fact that the other utilities in 19    California are going to be coming out of the rate freeze at 20    some point in the future, we have to consider the statewide 21    implications of what we're doing. 22               So this is not just the San Diego proceeding, 23    although we are focused on events here in the San Diego 24    area. Mona L Petrochko 08/30/2000 03:51 PM 
Wood, the Assigned Commissioner in the investigation of wholesale electric markets, has asked for comments on the following questions by Friday, September 8.  We are an individual party to the case as well as a member of ARM and WPTF. This would be a good opportunity to get our version of what is wrong on the record.  The presentation that Tim and Mary put together for FERC will be helpful in answering these questions.  I will take a first cut at drafting response to be circulated by Tuesday of next week.  We can take liberties in providing responses that go beyond the question asked. Market Structure: Are the market conditions currently being experienced (price spikes and suppy shortages) inevitable under the current market structure? Do generators and/or scheduling coordinators have market power? Is there a need to mitigate such market power? Which market participants or other entities are responsible for reliability planning? Do California regulatory agencies have adequate jurisdiction to ensure reasonable prices and reliable service? Do the structures and governance of the Cal ISO and PX adequately support the goals of providing reasonably priced and reliable service? Market Rules: Are there rules which allow or encourage unacceptable market outcomes? What roles, if any, do underscheduling in forward markets, out of state transfers, uniform PX auction prices and ISO real-time and out-of-market purchases play in the outcomes being experienced? Behavior of Market Participants: What is working and not working in terms of price, reliability, information exchange, resource distribution, equity, service quality, and types of planned generation? 
Sarah -- Looks fine.  Did Craig Roach contribute? I wonder if we should highlight the Interconnection problems we are having with new generation?  I know that most of the delays are Siting related, but it is unclear to me if the ISO or the local utility is the right point of contact.  This would help us nationally and gives FERC an ""answer"" - enforce your Interconnection policies!! Also, this doesn't mention any possible market flaws.  Do we think that some exist?  Are any of the AS markets manipulated?  EPSA needs to make sure that it takes an honest approach to this situation or its credibility will be destroyed.  Has Craig Roach looked into this? Jim Sarah Novosel@ENRON 09/05/2000 02:39 PM 
Here is EPSA's ""Fact Sheet"" on California.  We're discussing it at the EPSA power marketers' weekly conference call tomorrow.  We're also considering having EPSA submit this Fact Sheet to the CPUC  in response to the data requests sent by the CPUC (responses are due on Friday).  If you have any comments or suggested changes, please let me know (as soon as possible) in case EPSA submits this paper to the CPUC. Thanks Sarah 
MEMORANDUM TO: Regulatory Affairs Committee Power Marketing Working Group FROM: Donald Santa, Regulatory Affairs Committee Chair Joe Hartsoe, Power Marketing Working Group Chair Julie Simon, Vice President of Policy DATE: August 30, 2000 
Scott -- Can your assistant get a call in # for those in CA? Jim Scott Stoness@EES 04/13/2001 12:00 PM 
We have agreed on a strategy, subject to Whaley/Delaney approval, to: Scott Stoness submit testimony today advocating 2 part real time pricing in CA Read other parties testimony this weekend from the perspective ""Has somebody filed testimony close enough to Stoness testimony, that we can cross examine 
Scott, etal -- My final concern. Is anyone at EES concerned with this outcome -- (1) Accept EES' tiering but use 60% of current usage as baseline, (2) all above 60% is DJ Index, and (3) demand below 60% is paid at $500/Mwh (or the ISO price)? This is an adaption of our proposal.  Would this be painful? My big fear is that somehow the CPUC uses our filing against us.  We need to make sure that these discussions don't get away from us to allow that outcome. Jim Scott Stoness@EES 04/13/2001 12:00 PM 
We have agreed on a strategy, subject to Whaley/Delaney approval, to: Scott Stoness submit testimony today advocating 2 part real time pricing in CA Read other parties testimony this weekend from the perspective ""Has somebody filed testimony close enough to Stoness testimony, that we can cross examine 
Agreed.  Trying to be too cute with our strategy is difficult. Look, about 4 years ago we pulled out of the market.  I think that we need to simply accept that these customers are going back sooner or later.  NPC won't even pick this up. Jim Paul Kaufman@ECT 04/13/2001 01:06 PM 
I like the idea, particularly if we can time any decision to turn the customers back so it falls after the failure to get some action out of Sacto (instead of after our earnings release). The only problem I see is that we would need a decision from the top that we're not going to turn the customers back if we get direct access (so we can end the debate).  I don't think it helps us if we get lucky, get direct access back, then make a decision to return customers to the utility. Karen Denne@ENRON 04/13/2001 10:30 AM 
Before any decision is made, I think we really need to weigh in with EES on the ramifications (both PR and legislative) of turning back 16,000 residential customers.  I strongly believe that the public hit we will take will be far greater than our actual out-of-pocket losses.  We will be crucified by the public, media, consumer groups, legislators, governor, attorney general, etc.,  and this action will reaffirm our reputation of packing up and leaving when it's not in our interest.  The impact of this action would be exacerbated since it is on the heels of UC/CSU. I would also argue that this hurts our national dereg efforts.  If we're advocating that competition and choice benefits consumers and then we turn around and pull out of a market and abandon customers when we're not ""profiting,"" we'll kill any chances we have of ever serving retail customers in California -- or in any other state.  We look foolish advocating for direct access when we're not willing to serve our existing -- let alone future customers What about a preemptive strike that engages these 16,000 customers to weigh in on direct access -- i.e. a letter that says ""Enron may be forced to cancel its contract -- call/write/send the enclosed postcard to your legislator and 
In the meeting today, no decision was made about what to do with Enron's 16,000 residential customers.   Each of the contracts gives a basic 30 day out right to Enron. That being said, I think that we have a short window to push for DA before any public action impacts us in Sacramento. I realize that the ultimate action (which I think is inevitable) makes it harder for our advocacy on DA, but real $ are flowing out of the company. EES will give us notice when a decision is reached. Thanks, Jim 
Jeff - Given everything going on, I've decided to not come to SF.  I still think that you, Sue, Harry and Michael should talk on Monday pm.  Michael has your address and will come by around 5pm Jim 
Thane -- We now have enough information for the wholesale deal into SDG&E.  What I want is to mimic the legislation for R, Small C, and Street Lighting.  Can you put together the tenor and rates so we can match? Jim 
John Bryson from SCE called Jeff Skilling to seek our support for their=20 restructuring MOU before the California Assembly and the CPUC. =20 Steve Kean has asked that I get together a phone call to discuss this=20 proposal and our potential ""wish list"" that would be necessary for SCE to= =20 earn our support. I would like to set up a call for tomorrow at 12:30 Houston time.   The=20 call-in number is 1-800-486-2726 Code 789296 (for US parties). =20 Here is my initial proposal for Enron's list: 1. Full payment of PX Credit to ESP (receivable and going forward) from 1st= =20 Tranche of Securitization & agree to dismiss PX Credit compliant at CPUC. 2. Transmission network operated by West-wide RTO, not California ISO (roll= =20 Cal ISO into larger RTO) OR maybe push for TransElect buying . 3. Clear language on continuation of Direct Access with clarity on Surcharg= e. 4. Full payment to EWC on all charges (receivable and going forward) from 1= st=20 Tranche of Securitization. 5. Back-Up transaction to Transmission Sale =3D SCE should offer the market= =20 (including the State) the ability to buy the Hydro facilities. I'm sure there are others.  Maybe we want to be involved in a QF=20 restructuring deal? The plan is for Enron to try and respond to SCE by Friday (no later than=20 Monday). =20 Please call me if there are any questions at 713-853-7673.=20 Jim P.S.   For those who don't have the MOU, here is a brief overview. The following is an outline of the basic terms of the Southern California= =20 Edison Memorandum of Understanding: ? Commitment to Provide Power =01) SCE will keep its current generation pla= nts=20 and other generation assets and commit them to provide power on a regulated= =20 cost-of-service basis for 10 years. ? Dedication of Power =01) Edison International will commit the entire outp= ut of=20 Sunrise (one of Edison International=01,s non-regulated generating faciliti= es)=20 to the State on a fixed price basis for 10 years. Phase I of Sunrise is to = be=20 brought online by August 15, 2001. If not brought online by August 15, 2001= ,=20 Edison International shall be assessed a $2 million penalty. ? Transmission Sale =01) SCE will sell to the State its transmission assets= for=20 approximately $2.76 billion (2.3 times the net book value of the assets),= =20 subject to certain adjustments. Of the $2.76 billion, the $1.5 billion gain= =20 on sale, will be used to reduce SCE=01,s net undercollected amount as of Ja= nuary=20 31, 2001. In connection with the purchase, the State will also assume certa= in=20 liabilities associated with the transmission assets. ? Backup Transaction =01) If the transmission sale does not occur within tw= o=20 years for reasons beyond the parties=01, control, then if the State elects,= SCE=20 shall sell to the State SCE=01,s hydro generation assets. If the hydro asse= ts=20 are not worth $1.5 billion, then SCE will also sell the state after Decembe= r=20 31, 2010 enough below-market-price-power to make up the shortfall. ? Conservation Property =01) SCE shall grant perpetual conservation easemen= ts to=20 the State covering approximately 260,000 acres of its Big Creek hydroelectr= ic=20 related lands and 825 acres of its Eastern Sierra hydroelectric related=20 lands.  Some of the land may be deeded in fee. ? Contribution by Edison International =01) Edison International will refun= d to=20 SCE not less than $400 million.  This money will consist of a refund of=20 approximately $293 million in estimated 2000 quarterly tax payments plus=20 approximately $197 million in federal loss carryback tax savings. ? Investment =01) Edison International and SCE will invest not less than $3= =20 billion over the next 5 years in capital improvements for SCE. ? Litigation =01) SCE shall dismiss certain claims, including its takings a= nd=20 filed rate doctrine cases. ? CPUC Regulation =01) CPUC shall continue to regulate SCE using historical= =20 principles of ratemaking. ? Payment for Portion of QF Drop-off =01) SCE shall pay an amount that=20 represents that portion of the net short from January 18, 2001 to April 1,= =20 2001 that is attributable to QF=01,s not selling to SCE (due to SCE=01,s fa= ilure to=20 pay the QF=01,s).  SCE will securitize this amount. ? Securitization =01) SCE shall securitize its full net undercollected amou= nt=20 (approx. $3.5 billion).  The securitization shall occur in two tranches (i.= e.=20 two different nonbypassable dedicated rate components). ? The first tranche will occur after the passage of legislation and the=20 signing of the definitive agreements and will cover the net undercollected= =20 amount, less the gain on sale, plus interest on certain obligations in the= =20 net undercollected amount. ? The second tranche would be triggered if the transmission sale does not= =20 occur within two years.  Accordingly, the second tranche would not show up = in=20 rates for two years, if at all. ? Buying the Net Short =01) The State will be required to buy the net short= =20 through December 31, 2002.  After 2002 SCE will be responsible for covering= =20 the net short. ? Investment Recovery =01) SCE shall have an authorized rate of return that= will=20 not drop below its current rte (11.6%) during the 10 year cost of service= =20 ratemaking period. ? Next Steps (Definitive Agreements and CPUC Action): ? Definitive Agreements =01) Once the MOU is signed, the next stage is to= =20 negotiate definitive agreements which contain the specific terms of the=20 transmission sale, as well as the specific terms of the various other relat= ed=20 agreements (e.g., the O&M Agreement, Transmission Services Agreement and th= e=20 Facilities Services Agreement). ? CPUC Action =01) Prior to entering into the definitive agreements, the CP= UC=20 must undertake certain actions (which include: establishing mechanisms for= =20 preapproval of procurement costs and URG costs, deferring SCE=01,s general = rate=20 case until 2003, granting SCE some relief from direct access credits and=20 clarifying the first priority condition in the holding company act). 
Call at 12:30 Houston Time 
Call at 12:30 Houston Time Jim, Ernon Wind appreiates item number 4 - getting full payment for past due and going forward power deliveries. Additionally we would like the following: 1. Agreement that we can deliver up to the nameplatre capacity on our existing contracts 2.Assurance of transmission access for the nameplate amount on all of our contracts 3.Additional offtake agreements for future projects at a reasonable price 4 Ability to have EWG status tather than QF status under our existing contracts 5. Support for the voluntary energy pricing provisions of S.B. 47x Thanks, Hap Boyd 
Jeff -- Attached is my redlined version of your comments. Use as appropriate. Jim 
I think that we should stop (or curtail) all EES work on SDG&E rate cases because we are not actively marketing in SD. Do people disagree?  What is the down side? Jim 
I'll mention to Shapiro.  I think that it would be perfect. By the way, if the whole damn state had just listened to a few very bright people in the CPUC we would have alot more free time. Jim 
With the on-going discussions in CA, we need to make sure that we understand what would happen if a core / non-core split were implemented. Basically, what is the 1 year, 3 year, and 5 year price for a E-19 and E-20 customer with a typical load profile?  Has to be all in (as if EES were selling gen only service). Give me a call if this does not make sense. Thanks, 
No one knows.  I'm just trying to find out what the prices are. Jim 
Jeff -- Can you do this call? Jim 
LET'S WORK FROM THIS DRAFT. Jim 
Jim: The attached incorporates Jeff's changes from this morning as well as a couple additional revisions/clean up (i.e., I added some clarification to the rate design table per Jeff's suggestion). I look forward to your additional feedback. Thanks, Jennifer 5-3550 
Here is the new draft.   Do we a time line of actions? Jim 
Jeff -- Some how we need to include these numbers. Jim 
I've done some numbers that will help in a discussion around timing of any split. This graph shows $/MWh prices over time.  It compares a) solid lines (EES cost)  -- forecast using yesterday's commodity prices plus T&D&CTC (without any surcharges) b) muted lines -- forecast using our bundled prices where surcharge is set at 1 cent plus 3 cents rest 2001; 1 cent plus 2.4 cents for 2 years; goes to cost-of-service beyond where 2/3 of undercollections for IOU's are collected Here are some PV prices that are derived from these curves - for different starting dates and 1/3/5 year terms. 
Pls look at this draft.  Robert we need some more information.  We need our expected prices for core / non-core from today until 2003. Jim 
FYI.  Need your support to move this process. Jim 
Robert -- Pls take a look.  We have some need for serious data inclusions and changes from Tamara.  I restructured the charts.  Hope this makes sense. I also don't understand the Direct Access Benefits to CDWR table - Are the savings monthly, annually, total??? We need to add Jeff's section on Natural Gas. Please everyone check out what I said about a California Demand Buy-Down system that should be in place until Retail Rate structure is changed.  Not sure if everyone wants this much detail or if this contradicts anything else we have put out. The goal is to get this to Janel by 3pm Friday for her to include in a Draft Package for Steve over the weekend with final revisions on Monday. I appreciate everyone's help. Thanks, 
Do either of you have anything to add? Jim 
Does anyone know about the Regulatory risks or approvals necessary with monetization of Base Gas contained within Storage (either LDC or P/L)? Someone from Gas Assets called about this opportunity and I wanted to understand before setting up a meeting. Jim 
Janel -- Pls include this CERA study in Lay's California briefing book. =20 Also, in the study CERA mentions another study we should include (pls ask= =20 Joan Stransky to get it from CERA) - Beyond California's Crisis:  Impact,= =20 Solutions, and Lessons. Jim 
Jeff -- Some thoughts - 1. Your key assumption seems to be that this Summer the energy supply manager (CDWR buying net short of utility) has enough ""power"" to sell the negawatts. I am not so sure.   I belive that a more realistic assumption is that in most hours this Summer, CDWR will be buying energy from the ISO. 2. If my assumption is closer to reality, than CDWR will not be able to sell ""excess"" MWs and pay the customer.  Even if you are right, CDWR buys at $80/Mwh (LT contracts delivered today) and sells at $300/Mwh = net benefit to deliver to customer of $220/Mwh [unless you are saying the $80/Mwh goes to retail rates and $300/Mwh to customer = which is what I say in #3]. 3. I think that we should just call a spade a spade.  CDWR should give the customer for a negawatt $300/Mwh independent of how they manage their portfolio.  The $ should be put into the general expense of power and collected through CPUC approved rates.  Had the customer consumed, that Mwh would have cost CDWR at least $300/Mwh (and probably more given the increased load).  The state and/or customers still spends the same $.  The only argument that one could have is that the customer who conserves ""costs"" other customers $.  But these other customers should not feel slighted.  Again, CDWR was already going to pay the generators.  Why not pay someone who has a real business in CA? 4. So let's compute the cost = 2000 MW x 80 hours [5x16] x $350/Mwh = $56MM for a one month, 2,000 MW on-peak curtailment. But the other benefit is (a) reliability, (b) less fossil fuel burned = cleaner environment, (c) sticking it too those damn greedy generators, and (d) probably lower overall prices and costs because lower demand. 
Are we still opposing this legislation? Thanks, Jim 
SBX 6 (Burton), which would establish a Public Power Authority, passed out of the Assembly moments ago on a vote of 47 to 8.  The bill must now go back to the Senate for concurrence.  I have attached the latest version of the bill for your review.  Three amendments were taken on the Assembly floor; (1) provide that PPA power utilized in California be sold at cost based rates, (2) provide that the PPA can also construct natural gas storage and transmission facilities, and (3) provide that the state can site on public land, then auction the plans to developers. http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/bill/sen/sb_0001-0050/sbx1_6_bill_20010419_amended_ asm.pdf 
Attached is a letter we are sending to Sen. Dunn today.  Any questions, please call me.  We should not be discussing in public. Thanks, Jim 
Attached is some info that begins explaining the issue with gas basis differentials. Jim 
The following is a list of the scheduled conference calls held by Government Affairs on a going forward basis.  The primary responsibility of the Lead is to provide an agenda and to moderate the call. Please forward to anyone else. Thanks, Jim TITLE    DAY  TIME (Houston time) LEAD National Activities Update Mon  10:30am  Jim Steffes DC Advocacy   Mon  3:00pm   Linda Robertson California Crisis   Tues/Thur 1:30pm   Paul Kaufman/Jeff Dasovich Western Gas / Power  Thurs  2:30pm   Ray Alvarez 
Richard -- Can you please send a copy to Sandi McCubbin? Why don't we discuss how to pass along on the Tuesday CA call. Jim 
I think we should let people in the legislature know about this and see if one or more of them can get their hands on it. 
I think that we should be careful.  Private label activity can occur with a city today in California if the Muncipal government agrees.  I would not want to try and ""thread the needle"" on a very specific muni language right now in CA - too much activity. Jim 
Team -- My initial response is that this is not  a key issue for Enron (given everything else).  I'd rather simply know how the process is to work going forward, than make a big case either way. Jim JBennett <JBennett@GMSSR.com> on 05/07/2001 11:15:58 AM 
Looks good.  I wouldn't stress the MOU, but would rather focus on the ""melding"" of alot of good ideas.  The Investigation concession comes from whom? Jim 
Looks good with me. Jim 
Jeff - I would recommend that you (if needed) use Jennifer to help. Jim 
Ken Lay spoke with several California CEOs this morning and urged them to get personally involved in pushing for a comprehensive set of reforms.  Three expressed willingness to help. Scott McNealy (Sun):  contact person - Piper Cole (piper.cole@sun.com); scott.mcnealy@engeng.sun.com.  Mcnealy wants, by close of business today, a ""cheat sheet"" of the talking points to use with politicians (the ""8 or 10 elements of the solution"") with the expected comeback he may hear from the political leaders and our response to that comeback.  He says he hasn't spent time working on issues in Sacremento so we may also want to include a list of suggested contacts. Kevin Sharer (Amgen): contact person - Sarah Jensen, VP of Engineering and Operations (805.447.6785); ksharer@amgen.com.  Sharer wants the same information as McNealy and he and McNealy both indicated their willingness to call a meeting of other California CEOs.  Sharer will also be having breakfast with Hertzberg one week from today. Robert Day (Trust Co of the West):  said that he is very close to the mayor of Los Angeles.  He urged Ken to call the mayor (mentioning Day).  Ken would like some talking points for that call. Jeff - please put these items together. 
We care a great deal on Point #2 - the PX Credit issue.  Harry Kingerski will have the right messages. Jim Susan J Mara 05/11/2001 12:28 PM 
as of June 3 I learned at the AReM meeting today: SCE has informed ESPs that it will implement its advice letter on the MOU (don't recall the number) beginning with the new rates on June 3.  We are planning to protest that AL.  Do we care? IF we do, Jeanne, can we stop them? Also, SCE has informed people that it is calculating the PX Charge/Credit based on its AL that was rejected by the CPUC. Do we care on that one? Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Here are the changes we discussed on Friday. I am sending Liz Ivers and Karen Denne for their review. Jim 
Leslie -- Please call Jeff. Jim Leslie Lawner 09/08/2000 11:17 AM 
Do you have a final version of the paper explaining why California is having the problems it is?  I will be making a presentation in NM about this on the 26th.  Thanks. 
Let's use EPSA. Jim Susan J Mara 05/14/2001 05:00 PM 
On May 11, the CA ISO made a ""compliance filing"" for the April 6 order on credit worthiness in the real-time market.  Whereas the FERC order REQUIRED the ISO to get creditworthy parties -- the ISO portrayed it as an obligation of the buying party.  Therefore, the ISO's letter says that the ONLY party to come forward to provide credit support was DWR -- and because of DWR's ""fiduciary obligation to conserve the finite resources that have been placed at its disposal"", DWR REQUIRED access to the ISO's control room floor and non-public data.  This is outrageous and just shows that the ISO has, in effect, become a state-run, vertically-integrated utility. Question -- do we want to protest this? Or sit by and see what the generators do? If we want to comment, it would be due June 1. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
FYI.  As soon as we see the Data Request, we will contact the appropriate people in legal to start working out our responses. Jim 
I just received a call from John Kroeger of the FERC Ofice of Market Oversight and Enforcement.  They are in the process of a non-public investigation of gas prices at the California border and are issuing a 4 question data request to ENA, EESI and EEMC (jointly) today.  I will forward the data request by e-mail as soon as I receive it from FERC, but wanted to give you a heads up. 
Jeff -- FYI 
Early Next Week 
Jeff - Why don't you send this also to Phillip Allen? Jim 
The commercial teams at EES need to understand our opinion / perspective on= =20 if Direct Access customers in the future will pay any surcharges.   Also, w= ho=20 can we contact in CPUC and legislature or governor office to verify? To make this make sense, I think that we need to think about this on a=20 ""revenue item"" basis (eg, Utility Undercollection from x date to y date). Why not discuss on CA call tomorrow? Jim Some notes from Order --- The surcharge adopted in D. 01-03-082 is intended to provide payment for DW= R=20 purchases which do not include purchases made by direct access customers.  = By=20 this exemption we intend to =01&net out=018 the charges and credits of dire= ct=20 access customers. =20 1. Direct access customers do not impose liabilities on CDWR, PG&E or Ediso= n=20 for procuring power. It would be inequitable for direct access customers to pay for their own co= st=20 of procurement and a share of the costs incurred on behalf of customers who= =20 purchase power from PG&E, Edison and CDWR. 1. The credit that direct access customers receive shall not reflect the=20 surcharges imposed on others by today=01,s decision, which direct access=20 
Robert & Jeff -- Is there some other (competitive) storage that would want to work with our deal in CA other than SocalGas?  Maybe find someone adding some new storage. Jim Robert Neustaedter@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/16/2001 10:20 AM 
In response to your request to review the SoCalGas tariff with respect to storage service for quantities of  gasified LNG in excess of market I present the following. SoCalGas has various storage rate schedules available to its customers, including forms of interruptible storage service. Because of the long-term nature of the proposed project and firm injection requirements I focused on Schedule No. G-LTS (firm Long-Term Storage Service). Pricing under this schedule is very flexible (both upwards and downwards).  I have used the rates included in the tariff which are suppossed to closely correspond to utilty cost of providing such service and are also consistent with rates previously supplied for economic modeling purposes.  Keep in mind, these are benchmark costs, and may be subject to downward or upward negotiation. Because of the magnitude of the injection quantities, it was advised that some expansion of storage capabilities may be required. Fixed charges consist of an annual inventory capacity charge, and annual withdrawal capacity charge and a monthly firm injection charge.  The monthly firm injection charge is the largest cost component.  Based on conversations with SoCalGas, firm injection rights (similar to pipeline capacity) would be sold on a monthly basis.  Consequently, in order to have firm rights to injection capacity, it would have to be reserved 365 days out of a year. During the off-peak season, ""as-available"" injection rights may be used that could substantially lower the cost, but given the inflexibility of unloading of the LNG ships, this was not considered. Variable costs would consist of injection and withdrawal charges in the applicable periods (peak and off-peak) for injection and withdrawal quantities. A fuel retention factor of 2.44% would be applied to injections during the peak period. While not necessarily affecting the overall costs, a transmission charge on injections and withdrawals would also be assessed.  A transmission charge on injections would appear as a debit on the invoice, and an equal transmission charge on withdrawals would appear as a credit, effectively resulting in a wash.  However, for cash flow purposes it should be considered.  The transmission charge is approximately 57 cents per dekatherm. Transportation from storage would require a separate contract. A spreadsheet is attached that quantifies the storage cost on an annual basis utilizing the injection/ withdrawal and inventory assumptions provided. Again, please keep in mind that the actual costs are negotiable. I hope this helps in your analysis, and please feel free to call and discuss further. Robert 
See below.  I told you in my earlier analysis that $20B was the number. Jim 
This is you. Jim 
Allan Zaremberg, President of the California Chamber of Commerce, met with John Burton to discuss energy.  One of the items which John Burton brought up to Allan was Bob Hertzberg's core/non-core proposal. According to the Chamber, Burton is interested in the concept and wants to get Allan's thoughts.  The Chamber is very interested in hearing more about the proposal which they attribute to Enron and would like documentation.  Could someone please forward the appropriate documents to me.  I also suggested that the Chamber and Enron circle back to discuss the item in greater detail as soon as possible. 
I have taken the liberty to draft a response to Mr. Perillo. Please look at this and make comments or changes.  I would like to finish by end of today. Jim 
Guys and Gals -- Commercial wants our opinion (in fact they want us to contact the CPUC and legislative members) to gauge the ""true"" meaning of the DA bypass of the 3c/kwh Surcharge.  This question basically has arisen because there is a customer that we may not re-DASR if the Surcharge bypass extends in perpetuity (or if at least is there a Window of Opportunity that keeps customers from paying).  Put in other words, would anyone give us a ""free pass"" if we move load to DA right now and promise to keep them there with no ability to return to electric utility service? My current analysis looks something like this -- The term ""Surcharge"" is only applicable until the end of the AB1890 rate freeze (which will end no later than March.1.02 and may end earlier if (a) federal court finds in PG&E/SCE favor or (b) California legislature mandates an earlier end-date.  Surcharge is a ""term of art"" to get around the problems of the AB1890 rate freeze. At the end of the AB1890 rate freeze, it is my understanding that the CPUC will modify fully the rate structure and level to ensure full cost recovery on a going forward basis (therefore Utility Retained Generation, QF expense, CDWR current expenses (both energy purchase and financing costs will be included). Other outstanding costs will include (1) Utility Undercollection from May.00 until when no additional CA-ISO costs are applied) and (2) CDWR costs beginning Jan.17.01 until the end of AB1890 rate freeze new rates. Understanding how these costs will be recovered and by whom will most likely (70%) be decided by the Legislature with some decision-making by the CPUC. Utility Undercollection Bypass - 25% CDWR Jan.17.01 thru AB1890 end Bypass - 80% for people who never were on Utility Service, 10% for people who used Utility Service post Jan.17.01 CDWR Net Unavoidable Bypass - 10% for people who used Utility Service post Jan.17.01, 80% for others. LEGISLATION IMPACTING THIS DECISION There are three key direct access bills being considered (the Bowen bill - SB2x27, the Kelley bill - AB2x42, and the Battin bill - SB2x??). The Bowen bill would remove the DA suspension authority granted in AB1x1 and replace it with the following (1) if a customer has not bought from an electric utility on or after Jan.17.01 there are no charges [except there may be an entrance fee to use the electric utility going forward] and (2) if a customer wants to switch from an electric utility to an ESP they must pay ""to the department any uncollected amounts equivalent to the department's net unavoidable cost of power procurement, including any financing costs, attributable to that customer"" to ensure the satisfaction of any power purchase obligation or bond obligation to serve ""that customer"".  The recovery period shall be coincident with the terms of bonds issued to finance the purchases.  The CPUC has 90 days from the effective date to notify customers of their obligations. The Kelley bill would remove the DA suspension authority granted in AB1x1 and replace it with the following (1) if a customer has not bought from an electric utility on or after Jan.17.01 there are no charges, (2) every customer is allowed to buy from an ESP a % of their load equal to the amount served by Utility Retained Generation (not CDWR purchases) with no charges, (3) after the effective date, any customer that buys from the electric utility and wants to switch must pay ""to ensure satisfaction of any power purchase obligation or bond obligation incurred by the department"" with the following constraints - (a) for res and small commercial customers, if DA load is less than load growth or (b) to self gen customers, if the customer has given 180 days prior notification or (c) if the customer has given DWR 12 months' advance written notice (then only a fee equal to 12 months unavoidable costs).  The CPUC has 30 days from the effective date to notify customers of their obligations. The Battin bill would ... still reviewing CPUC DECISIONS IMPACTING THIS May 5 Order - DA doesn't pay current DWR expenses.  Good for bypass of these costs. 
Jeff -- Check this out.  Jim 
Given that we are already well into the Summer of '01, it now appears that further CDWR contracting will only lock CA into high prices.  The original idea was that CDWR could buy power at $80/mwh and ensure that retail rates wouldn't go higher.  Neither of these concepts have held true. I think that Enron needs to consider actively oppossing any further contracting and a bond issuance in light of the potential harm that CDWR will do.  First, the prices they are getting won't be great for customers. Second, with the ""new"" stranded costs that will be created, direct access in the future won't have a chance. Appreciate everyone's thoughts? 
Rick -- The information below is very helpful for Government Affairs across the country.  I have a few other questions to support our advocacy: 1. How much of our new power plant development is not subject to Building & Construction Trade Labor Agreements? 2. Does Enron have any specific policies on whether or not we should use Union labor on our construction?  We recently established human rights and environmental policies, I am wondering if this applied to Unions? 3. Do you know if the pipelines are also using Union labor on their expansions?  Or maybe, who could tell me? Thanks. Jim 
Rick:  Thanks very much. Rick Johnson@ENRON 09/08/2000 11:35 AM 
Jeff, per your recent voice mail,  below you will find the labor relationship summary that I prepared for Sandy. Hope it is helpful, please call if I can be of any assistance. Rj. 
Sandy, I was again disapointed to hear that Union leaders are accusing Enron as being unfriendly to Labor.  In the last 20 months we have pursued construction on over 3000 MW of new generation capacity. Enron Development Activity subject to Building & Construction Trade Labor Agreements California 500 mw - PDEF - FeB. 99 750 mw - PEF - Feb. 2000 Indiana 550 mw- Westfork Development -  Oct. 99 Illinois 680 mw - Lincoln Energy Facility - Nov 99 Tennessee 540 mw -  Gleason Power I - Oct 99 Oregon 240 mw - Coyote II (planned January 2001) Ethynol Plant - Columbia County - Baugh Const. June 2000 Hopefully this will prove to be valuable information:  In addition to the direct agreements, Enron is pursuing third party projects in Chicago and New York City that will be subject to labor agreements. If the parties are interested, feel free to have them contact me directly 503-464-7548 Regards, Rick Johnson 
I think that we should call her on Friday.  Can you do this Jeff? Jim 
FYI.  I bet Gov. Davis would want to see PG&E site these power plants in CA? Looks like PG&E is making money on deregulation both going and coming. Jim 
PG&E Corporation Signs Contracts to Secure 50 Generating Turbines Representing 15,900 Megawatts of Electricity BETHESDA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sept. 11, 2000--PG&E Corporation's (NYSE: PCG - news) National Energy Group today announced the execution of contracts to secure 50 turbines representing a development portfolio of approximately 16,000 megawatts of electric power. The contracts include four 7FA and nineteen 7FB turbines from GE Power Systems, as well as twenty-one Mitsubishi MHI 501G turbines and six Siemens Westinghouse SW 501G turbines. The turbines will be deployed nationally to support the company's greenfield development projects. Most of the turbines will be funded through a creative off-balance sheet financing arranged by Societe Generale. The financing provides for the turbine purchases and related project costs without any near-term cash outlays from PG&E Corporation. ``These purchase agreements indicate our dedication to our overall growth strategy,'' said Thomas G. Boren president and chief executive officer of PG&E National Energy Group. ``With a substantial turbine procurement program, our commitments to satisfying regional energy needs and meeting our development goals are well underway.'' The contracts mark PG&E National Energy Group's largest turbine commitment to date and diversifies its turbine portfolio. Delivery of the turbines is scheduled through 2004. ``We are greatly diversifying our marketing and generation presence across the country,'' said Boren. ``As we strengthen our foothold nationally with projects to meet critical market needs, we achieve a three-way win: value for our shareholders, confidence for our customers, and reliability for consumers,'' he added. PG&E Corporation with 1999 revenues of nearly $21 billion and operations in 21 states, markets energy services and products throughout North America through its National Energy Group. The Corporation has ownership and management interests in 30 operating electric power generating plants in 10 states, providing it with a generation portfolio of more than 7,000 megawatts and more than 10,000 megawatts in new power plant development and construction currently underway. It also has one of the largest energy trading and risk management programs in North America. Please visit our website: www.pgecorp.com To order a copy of PG&E Corporation's 1999 Environmental Annual Report, click on the leaf symbol on our website or call 1-800-743-6397. To order a copy of PG&E Corporation's 1999 Financial Annual Report, click on the club symbol on our website or call 1-800-654-2582. EDITORS: Please do not use ``Pacific Gas and Electric'' or ``PG&E'' when referring to PG&E Corporation or its National Energy Group. The PG&E National Energy Group is not the same company as Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the utility, and is not regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission. Customers of Pacific Gas and Electric Company do not have to buy products or services from the National Energy Group in order to continue to receive quality regulated services from Pacific Gas and Electric Company. 
Western Government Affairs -- Here is the outline of the Upcoming Issues by Forum we put together recently in DC.  We need to make sure that we have everything on this list (or add as appropriate).  Of course, this list will continue to evolve - I added the Cal ISO request to buy ""forward"" on the list. Gavin Dillingham has agreed to maintain a calendar that will track all of these Issues and Important Dates.  Our goal is to have a calendar program that everyone can access to keep on top of what is going on related to California and the West. Please let me know if you have any thoughts on this. Jim 
Here are some notes on a Cal Strategy. Jim 
FYI. 
Vince -- Please feel free to also call Jeff Dasovich (415-782-7822) in our San Fransisco office.  He has been very involved in the California market discussions and presented before FERC during their field hearings.  He knows the profs you are meeting with and has some great insights into our positions. Jeff also attended Berkeley as an undergrad and is now attending their B-school in the evenings. Thanks. Jim Steffes 
FYI.  I haven't found out much about this, but wanted you to see. Jim 
Rick suggested that I call you about this. =20 
The following original documents, received today, have been forwarded for= =20 your immediate review and consideration: Order Instituting Investigation into the Functioning of the Wholesale=20 Electric Market and Associated Impact on Retail Rates to Enron Energy=20 Services, Inc. and Portland General Electric Company; No. I.00-08-002, Befo= re=20 the State of California Public Utility Commission.  LETTER, SUBPOENA OR=20 SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM, CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE, NON-DISCLOSURE CERTIFICATE,= =20 ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE=01,S RULING, PROTECTIVE ORDER and CERTIFICATE OF= =20 SERVICE to Enron Energy Services, Inc. by certified mail on 9/25/00. PLEASE ADVISE IF NOT RECEIVED WITHIN 1 BUSINESS DAY. Thank you. Becky A. Stephens Litigation Unit, Enron Corp. 713/853-5025 EB4809 
Jeff -- Can you try and call Seabron today to discuss.  See if his understanding helps with California issues. Jim 
Jim: >Have you ever seen a model for a bid process like this?  Any auctions (in >any commodity) that would work?  We are trying to get back to key policy >makers mid-day on Monday. Yes, there are numerous default service auction models in operation or proposed, both in electricity and other utilities. The government of New South Wales in Australia is implementing a model similar to this. In Georgia, I think they recently had an auction to serve customers served by a gas retailer that went bust. Similar mechanisms have been used for years in the telecoms business for serving specific client bases, such as rural customers. Examples have been in Chile, and even in the U.S. (auctions for ""universal service obligations""). We proposed a model for ""third-party"" default service standard supply for Ontario (working for Aleck Dadson of Enron Canada). This allowed the standard supply provider to meet its obligation by competitive means, including holding an auction. The idea was to provide customers hedging in a framework that allowed for competition in default service. Let me know if you want a briefing or futher info. I'll be in the office until 4:00 or so (I'm then heading to the airport for Portland). My office number is (617) 354-0060, or (617) 513-5904 (mobile). Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. 
FYI. JDS 
Welcome to The University of California Energy Institute's POWER Working Paper Email Notification Service (PWPENS) The University of California Energy Institute's Program on Workable Energy Regulation (POWER) has distributed working papers since 1992.  With this email, we are launching a service to notify interested researchers, regulators, and practitioners when new POWER working papers become available. All POWER working papers can be downloaded free of charge from the UCEI website:  http://www.ucei.berkeley.edu/ucei  Just follow the link to ""POWER Research"". Below are the titles and abstracts of the POWER working papers that have been released so far in 1999, along with links that allow you to go straight to the full working paper text (available in Adobe Acrobat format).  As new POWER working papers are released, PWPENS will automatically notify you by email. If you would like to be removed from this list, please send an email to Mailto:ucenergy@socrates.berkeley.edu and include UNSUBSCRIBE in the subject heading.  If you received this email indirectly and would like to be added to this emailing list, please send an email to Mailto:ucenergy@socrates.berkeley.edu and include SUBSCRIBE in the subject heading. _________________________________________________________________ N E W   P O W E R   W O R K I N G   P A P E R S Working Paper Series of UCEI _________________________________________________________________ T I T L E S _________________________________________________________________ ""Regulation and the Leverage of Local Market Power in the California Electricity Market"" (September 1999) PWP-070 by James B. Bushnell and Frank A. Wolak 
So that we continue to drive our activities with our Public Affairs strategy, we have asked Alhamd to coordinate our material and project timeline.  We are also asking Jeanie Mandelker to take the lead in working through our different material to put into one look and feel. Please let Alhamd know of your activities so that we are able to better coordinate any bottlenecks.  Also, please forward to Alhamd and Jeanie all prior work that has been done so that they are in the loop. Attached the original gameplan. Jim 
Please include this material in your Gov. Davis slides.  Very intersting and possible to do. Jim 
The attached memo from Goodin McBride summarizes the regulatory treatment of PG&E's emission credits to date. It is an interesting animal.  Basically, PG&E has kept most of the credits, therefore has not divested the credits with the generating assets.  However, these assets have been acquired for nothing, therefore they have no ""regulatory value"".  In other words, their costs are not part of PG&E's rate base and are not being recovered from ratepayers. PG&E has issued RFPs for sales (auction) of the credits in the past.  The credits have been sold to Duke (Moss Landing) and to Southern and Calpine for Morro Bay and Oakland facilities.  They were price-only bids.  The after-tax proceeds went to benefit ratepayers through reducing the over-all CTC. All of these sales necessitated an 851 application (transfer of utility asset), but it appears these transfers went without a hitch.  ORA supported the mechanism.  There was no CEQA requirement on the basis that the credits were associated with an existing facility or that a new or modified facility would acquire appropriate air emissions permits. If PG&E were to keep the ERCs, it would need to file a 377 (utility retention) and show that it is in the public interest for the utility to retain.  Considering that the utility appears to have no real use for the credits, it would be a difficult showing.  The credits do not appear to be part of PG&E's settlement proposal to transfer the hydro assets to its affiliate. So, PG&E has sold the credits in the past.  They have been sold to new owners of PG&E facilities.  The big questions is how can we encourage PG&E to initiate another sale.  Their shareholders get no real benefit, as it appears likely that PG&E can recover all of their CTCs, pending valuation of their hydro facilities. I would suggest that we approach PG&E on their willingness to auction a portion of these credits on a comparable basis to its other auctions.  (I've asked Mike to ascertain the amount of time involved with the previous auctions.) If this cooperative approach does not succeed, we can discuss the possibility of applying some regulatory pressure to the valuation of the remaining credits.  We may also want to look at other agencies that may be anxious for the release of ""hoarded"" credits (like CEC), especially if such hoarding prevents new generation developments from coming on line. Mona 
- X16872.DOC 
Sue & Mary -- What ended up happening with our filing?  Did we make a separate case?  I liked the IEP filing but thought that it may have been too conciliatory? Let's talk on Oct 9 Monday. Jim 
Sue & Mary -- What ended up happening with our filing?  Did we make a separate case?  I liked the IEP filing but thought that it may have been too conciliatory? Let's talk on Oct 9 Monday. Jim 
Sue & Mary -- What ended up happening with our filing?  Did we make a separate case?  I liked the IEP filing but thought that it may have been too conciliatory? Let's talk on Oct 9 Monday. Jim 
Chris & Jeff -- Given your pending discussions, thought you should see this information.  Not quite sure what SDG&E is up to here, but wanted you to be aware.  Jeff, don't know what Mona is thinking about doing, but you may want to talk with her about responses. Jim 
Gary, Thanks for passing this information along.  This is a pretty well-documented discussion, which is always helpful when we contact the utility about such conduct. Obviously, this is very concerning about SDG&E counter-marketing, while promoting choice.  In addition some of their assumptions seem to require tremendous leaps of faith. I haven't seen an application to aggregate yet, but I would assume there would be heavy protests to such a proposal.  (SDG&E solicited my feedback on such a position, and I told them we weren't interested.) I'm not sure what type of ruling they are expecting from FERC, lower price caps or a return to cost-based rates (pretty extreme).  Decision, per Sue Mara, is not expected until December. SDG&E does have bilateral contracting authority and at least thus far has not exercised it. Customers have already experienced what ""leaving it to SDG&E"" will get them. Once bitten, twice shy. Enron Energy Services 
In preparation for the upcoming filings from different RTOs around the country to meet the FERC Order 2000 October 15 deadline, I'd like to outline a set of steps that we need to undertake to respond appropriately.  Comments are appreciated. A few people met with FERC last Friday to discuss our general observations and what a good RTO will look like (please see attached file below). Not all RTOs intend to file on October 15.  The filing RTOs (from what I can tell) include the following: (1) RTO West, (2) Desert Star, (3) SPP, (4) Entergy, (5) Southern Transco, (6) Grid South, and (7) Florida RTO.  (SPP and Entergy may file together) 1. Immediate Public Response It is critical to make sure that we have a list of key issues with each RTO filing that we can use to make public statements.  Each RTO lead should prepare  preliminary list of issues and send to Joe Hartsoe and me no later than Friday.  When the RTO filing is made, we need to review this list and compare to the actual filings and finalize.  This information will go into building our public message. Our initial response will be public (through the trade press).  This will include making specific comments about each RTO. Right now we are focusing on (1) failed efforts and (2) insufficient work as the key problems.  Any details or other topics should be considered. 2. Formal Response to October 15 Filing Dan Watkiss of B&P will be reviewing the formal filings for details.  Joe Hartsoe will coordinate our FERC filings due on November 15.  We need these done by early November to run them through the commercial side.  Each RTO lead should schedule some time in DC the week of Oct 24 with Joe Hartsoe to make sure that our filings are on-track and complete. We should file in each RTO case. 3. E-trans Response Jeff Brown continues to work to build our model.  No formal plan to roll this out has been yet developed.  We are working to have something ready by December 1. 4. Northeast Tight Pool Response I would like Steve Montovano to take the lead to structure our response.  We heard at FERC that PJM was considering filing pretty soon (next week).  We need to get our story straight to take this to a pre-filing meeting at FERC. 
Sue - Where do we stand on proposing a broader solution to the problems in this= =20 case?  I am worried that the only leverage we have right now (utility=20 undercollection) is going to be taken up on its own and we will still have= =20 the other issues (e.g., price cap reductions, rate cap problems, hydro, etc= .)=20 to fight. Jim Susan J Mara@EES 10/11/2000 06:57 PM =20 
ued 
Last week you were sent an email which discussed the October 4 emergency = =20 motions of Edison and PG&E to modify the end of rate freeze decisions.?  On= =20 October 5, Edison filed an ex parte request for the immediate suspension of= =20 the effective date of portions of D.99-10-057 and D.00-03-058.??On  October= =20 6, PG&E filed its support of Edison=01,s request for immediate  suspension = of=20 the effective dates of the decisions. The motions were filed  because of th= e=20 significant undercollections which are being accumulated in their  purchase= d=20 power accounts. ? A ruling has just been issued by ALJ Minkin which directs parties to file = =20 responses to Edison=01,s and PG&E=01,s ex parte requests for immediate susp= ension =20 of certain portions of D.99-10-057 and D.00-03-058.? The judge says, ""In = =20 effect, Edison and PG&E have moved for a stay of certain aspects of these = =20 decisions.? Consistent with Rule 45(f), responses to motions must be filed = =20 and served within 15 days of the date that the motion was served, unless th= e =20 administrative law judge sets a different date.? Therefore, responses to = =20 Edison=01,s and PG&E=01,s requests must be filed and served by October 20, = 
Is there anything that Enron would like to see changed on the Cal ISO demand program for the Summer?  I know that we are not really worried about UDC Interruptible contracts, but maybe we can use this forum to change the way customers who volunteer get some benefits. Jim Susan J Mara@EES 10/11/2000 11:22 AM 
SUMMARY OF CPUC ACTION:  The CPUC has instituted an investigation of current interruptible and demand side programs.  Our CA attorneys prepared a summary of the CPUC action, which is provided below. ENRON ACTIONS:  Most of the calls we've received from EES have concerned the CPUC's proposed requirement that retail customers be forced to retain their interruptible contracts for their full five-year terms.  We have learned that Enron has customers or potential customers on both sides of this issue -- we have customers who want to get out of the contracts and customers who want to stay on the programs.  After discussion with Doug Condon and others, we have decided to stand on the sidelines and not take a position on that issue. Please feel free to call one of us with comments or questions. Sue Mara (415) 782-7802, Jeff Dasovich -7822, Mona Petrochko -7821. PREPARED SUMMARY:  Here is a preview of the Commission's latest actions in response to the ""crisis"" in the California electric market. In short, the Commission has instituted an Investigation into operation of the interruptible load programs of the three UDCs, and the effect of these programs on energy prices, other demand responsiveness programs, and the reliability of the electric system. The item which has gotten the most ""press"" from the OII so far is the proposed temporary suspension of the tariff provisions of the three UDCs that allow customers to opt out of their interruptible program contracts during the 30 day window commencing November 1st.  The Commission is using its authority under PUC Section 743 ( which gives the Commission specific authority to amend interruptible contracts between the UDCs and qualified heavy industrials) to propose such suspension.  Although parties are allowed to comment on the suspension by this Thursday (the 12th), the Commission does have the apparent authority to effect the change and it will most likely  proceed with the suspension. Apart from the enforced extension of the interruptible contracts, however, the OII potentially could have broader ramifications.  The intent of the OII is to examine all interruptible, curtailable, and demand responsiveness programs being currently offered and/or  proposed in California, and to determine how these programs can best be structured and/or reformulated to serve the Commission's goal of ensuring reliable and reasonably priced electric service within California (especially for the summer of 2001).  It is hard to tell exactly what the Commission has in mind.  However, it is possible that such reformulation of curtailable/demand responsiveness programs could interfere with Enron's ability to make interruptible/ demand responsive deals with customers. Moreover, the OII is not merely looking at larger customers. It states as one of the purposes of the rulemaking the identification of if and how smaller customers can participate in curtailable programs.  Specifically, the OII states that ""we need to examine the ability of smaller customers to participate; the development of rate design and incentive polices of such participation; a cost/benefit analysis of such programs; and the marketing 
If you had not seen this, it looks like the utilities are now trying to ""help"" FERC find the guilty. What do people thin about beginning to quietly discuss with members of the California state house that the damages of the summer are not (or don't need to) being charged to end use customers.  The utilities are doing a really good job of wrapping themselves with little households.  In fact, TURN signed on to this pleading. While San Diego customers are harmed, other consumers in California are just fine.  Utility shareholders are taking it on the chin.  We need to make sure that policymakers (especially FERC) recognize that in making any kind of refund the real choice is between Power Marketer shareholders and Utility shareholders. Jim 
Mary and Jim: Did you see in the PG&E/SCE filing that the two companies have kindly volunteered (p. 32) to ""assist the Commission in developing a full record and in undertaking the rigorous analysis needed to fix the problems in the California markets and determine refund responsibility"". How kind and public-spirited of them. More seriously, I would expect that they already have a full economic analysis going on prices, damages, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
FYI.  The attached e-mail came into PR unsolicited.  Check out his conclusion.... Jim 
First, let me congratulate you on your terriffic quarter of earnings growth, up 31% over the same period last year . Absolutely spectacular. Your shareholders must be quite happy with that type of performance. Your company executives should be proud. I live in Spring Valley, California. I paid $357 for my electricity for the months of July, August and September. Not only that, I might be on the hook for untold thousands of dollars when the current electric legislation expires in 2002. I know that Enron is a member of the California Power Exchange.  You cannot sit there and tell me that you did not benefit from the exploding energy prices caused by ""DEREGULATION"". And, I'm also pretty sure this is not the only email you have received commenting on the high prices of energy. I just wanted to congratulate you on the fine quarter. Keep sucking up those profits... Like a vampire. Keith Totzke Spring valley, CA 
Karen - We were very involved in the discussions of the report with FERC staff.  The response that Mary filed recently just formalized our earlier verbal comments - now it's on the record.  I am not sure, however, if everything we want will be in the report.  We will monitor very closely. We will participate in the Nov 9 hearing (as much as it makes sense). I agree that we need to be ready for comment on Nov 1 and after to discuss any negative impacts. Jim Karen Denne 10/20/2000 03:29 PM 
How come FERC has finalized their report without our comments?!  We need to be prepared to respond when they issue their report -- we can line up broadcast interviews (CNBC, CNN) in response -- and also target specific publications.  We'll need to prepare ""sound bite"" messages based on our filing (I haven't seen it yet, but Mary Hain is supposed to be sending it). Keep me posted on the time and place of the Nov. 1 press conference.  Also, are we participating in the Nov. 9 public hearing?  Let me know. thx. kd 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
I vote for waiting until Monday to discuss.  This is one part of the larger PR / Government Affairs strategy in California.  We need Karen Denne (PR) to come to Portland for the meeting on Monday. Jim Tim Belden@ECT 10/24/2000 05:54 PM 
When do you guys want to talk through this?  Who should be involved?  Can it wait until Monday when we have our California meeting here in Portland? 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Attached please find a draft of a Govt Affairs Update that Tim Belden has asked us to keep (Mary Hain has worked on it).  It will help the Desk and our group keep up with what is going on.  I've asked Marcie Milner to try and manage the report (but everyone needs to update their stuff).  We can talk about this at our next meeting.  If you have comments on format, etc. please let Marcie know. Jim PS Marcie , this has some changes that weren't on the last one. 
I wanted to make sure that everyone involved with the CA New Product was aware that the CPUC may consider at its next public meeting (6/14) the implementation of the Direct Access suspension established in AB1x1. We are hearing that the CPUC may not have 3 votes in favor of such suspension, but the topic is on the agenda.  It is very difficult to get any clarity on this issue given the politics and ex parte restricitions. Even if the CPUC does not take action on this language at the next meeting, until that provision of the law is modified by the General Assembly, the CPUC could take action at a later time. Please call me if anyone has any questions. Jim 
Here is the outline of some points to make in the filing today. 
Seabron - Here is an outline of the work product we would like you to consider -- 1. How much did the LACK OF POLITICAL LEADERSHIP / LUNACY cost California consumers? + LUNACY = CPUC did not accept $60/Mwh last year + unwillingness to fix credit problems + Bad CDWR buying habits + other 2. Analyze key Cal ISO studies dealing with ""overearning"" and market abuse. + Methodological faults + Analyze Key Findings + Develop appropriate ""Enron"" responses 3. Develop framework to assist in responding to political ""calls"" for market controls + Understand better who ""won"" from the WEALTH TRANSFER + How much was transferred to ""Texas generators""? 4. Other fixes still needed + A/S markets in California + Governance issues + other? I hope this helps frame the work. Jim 
Here is the outline of some points to make in the filing today. 
Just to make sure that everyone is on the same page, Ban Sharma is working with Seabron Adamson and Sue Mara to complete the work below.  If people need any other information (or a specific presentation), please let Ban know. Thanks, Jim 
Jennifer Thome will be coordinating the review of CDWR's contracts beginning this morning.  If anyone has any issues that need to be considered in the review, please make sure that Jennifer understands the issues. Jennifer Fraser has volunteered someone from her team to help. We will be working with ENA Legal in Portland (through Alan Comnes) to help with the review. Please call Jennifer Thome if there are any questions.  Jennifer will provide an update on timing etc. at the end of the day. Thanks, 
Here is the outline of some points to make in the filing today. 
and ORN 
A note from CSFB on implications from FERC order.  No real ""new"" news for sector.  Indicates market had already priced the info into the stocks. Jim 
Agreed.  My initial thoughts -- 1. More Government isn't the answer.  If this proves anything, it is that Government is the wrong party to manage consumer's energy price risk. 2. This is a 10 year hangover.  The total bill = $### billion. 3. Direct Access is a better solution for California.  Let businesses manage their own needs, rather than a small public agency never designed to take on this task. 4. Too much, too late.  CDWR should have been buying to manage the cost for 2001, not worrying about 2007.  Any contract that starts after Sept 2002 is simply not a part of any real solution. By the way, I think that if pressed, Enron has to be very clear - we are not advocating abrogation of contracts. Jim P.S. Jennifer will be ready to present something at the call. 
FYI.  Nothing amazing in their presentation, but I'd thought I'd pass it along. Jim 
FYI john_h_stout@reliantenergy.com on 10/27/2000 08:30:32 AM 
(See attached file: ERCOT Board Presentation.ppt) - ERCOT Board Presentation.ppt 
The following points highlight legal/regulatory recommendations to the business team on the DA suspension issue. All intelligence indicates that the CPUC will act on this issue at its June 28, 2001 meeting (and there are sufficient votes for the decision). Existing Contracts - It is our recommendation that EES should submit any and all DASRs to initiate DA service  to the appropriate Utility no later than June 29, 2001 for all customers that have existing contracts if we want to ensure DA service. New Contracts - All new contracts should be signed by both EES and the customer no later than June 30, 2001 (July 1, 2001 is a Sunday).  DASRs for these contracts should be submitted to the appropriate Utility as soon as possible, but in no event later than July 6, 2001.  The July 6 date is our estimate of the last date the Utility would accept DASRs for new contracts. It is important to note that the CPUC is keeping the clock on contract execution timing. Switching Option - Customers that are on DA service can be returned to the Utility per the tariff process.  Once the customer has been returned to Utility service after July 1, 2001, our expectation is that there will be no ability to have this customer receive DA service in a future timeframe.  In addition, returning to Utility service may incur a ""re-entry fee"". Contract Extensions - EES should consider amending all current contracts that terminate after July 1, 2001 with a Evergreen Provision that provides for Index pricing with 30 day cancellation notice provisions.  These amendments should be signed prior to June 30, 2001.  It is possible that the CPUC will require marketers to detail the termination dates of their DA customers.  One additional thought - EES may consider having the customer assign any Negative CTC receivable to EES as compensation for the Evergreen provision (to overcome the CPUC language that indicates that the customer is due the Negative CTC credit). We intend to set up a call for 5pm Houston time today to discuss (call-in number to follow). 
In the same Decision that the CPUC is considering voting out on suspending Direct Access, the CPUC is considering a SoCal Edison recommendation to suspend further payment of the Negative CTC to marketers. The Decision would find that the earlier Stipulation does not require SCE to make a cash payment in lieu of a bill credit (even though SCE has already paid cash in previous periods for the Negative CTC). The Decision orders SCE to not make cash payments to satisfy the Negative CTC credit. The Decision is unclear as to whether or not this is simply a suspension of payment or would be permanent. The Decision would apply the same findings and rulings to PG&E and SDG&E. The key issue is that rather than having a cash receivable, EES would now have a bill credit receivable.  In addition, because EES re-sourced its customers, the Utility account that holds the bill credit is EES, not the customer account.  The only method to obtain the economic value of the bill credit is to utilize the Utilities' services.  Even if EES physically serves the customers going forward, it may not be the same account that has the bill credit. The outcome of this case would impact our current Complaint, but it is unclear exactly how the CPUC would apply this Decision to that case. We are intending to (a) try to remove this issue from the CPUC Decision, (b) trying to clarify the suspension is not meant as a vehicle to deny us payment, and (c) trying to determine that the Utilities' tariff would allow us to be paid if our account became ""inactive"". One other option to consider (at least for SCE) would be to contact SCE management to work out a bill credit application process to allow EES to route the economic value to our DA customers. If anyone has any questions, please call me to discuss. 
Here is the note we sent to our CA customers this weekend to extend with Evergreen. Jim 
Are you going to testify? Jim 
The Senate Energy Committee is going to hold the following informational hearing tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.: 
Left you off of earlier e-mail. Jim 
Here is a draft of Ban Sharma's and Ursula's presentation on what California has done wrong.  I think a few people are looking for this info.  Please work with Ban to add / change, etc. so we have one document. Jim 
Jim, We made some grammar  and cosmetic changes... here is the latest version. Also, we modified the meaning of bullet three (page 3) and added appendix 1. Do you want to change the title? We will wait for your comments. Ursula 
I think that the goal of Govt Affairs should be to (1) ensure that customers never on utility service post Jan 17 should not pay, and (2) try and find a compromise with the other parties to allow customers who leave by some date certain will only pay for the unrecovered cost  on a $/mwh basis. Basically I am arguing that Enron should require DWR to calculate its unpaid balance on some date certain and determine the appropriate surcharge.   I know that this is a very long shot.  We should make this recommendation as a help to our business teams even if we are going to lose. Do  we need a conference call with Lobbyists to work through this on Thursday? Jim 
As discussed, we have two possible approaches: 1) Home Run Strategy: The following change: The commission shall, within 30 days from the date of the application, issue a bond financing order establishing a DWR Bond Charge that shall be applicable to all electric power delivered in California by electric corporations subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, with the exception of electric power delivered by suppliers other than the utility, who contracted for such delivery prior to the effective date of this legislation. We use San Diego large customers as our example of customers who should be exempt from a surcharge because they have been off bundled rates for the duration of the turmoil. Risk is that our customers will not be fully on until about August 15.  Thus if the wording gets changed to ""who are taking delivery as of the effective date of this legislation"" we have failed. Positive is that it removes the CPUC (anti enron) discretion. 2) 1st Base Strategy: The following change: c) The commission shall conduct such proceedings as it deems necessary to inform the public of the revenue requirements  and to establish rates to enable the department to recover the revenue requirement.  Such rates will be designed  i) such that the bond revenue requirements will be recovered, and ii) to reflect the amount of DWR bond costs that the customer or customer class caused. Risk is that the CPUC will interpret these words unfavorably to us.  ie.  If we touch the system once we pay the whole surcharge. Scott 
Harry.  I read through the proposed legislation.  In summary it: Imposes a DWR Bond surcharge applicable to all electric power delivered in California .... subject to the jurisdiction of the commission. The commission would approve the adjustments to the DWR Bond Charge as may be necessary to ensure timely recovery.... The commission would conduct hearings to establish rates to allow the DWR to recover their revenue requirements. The DWR Bond Charge shall take precedence over all other costs and disbursements to be padi from the fund and shall be paid from revenue derived from rate levels in effect on July 31, 2001. Although we could live with this legislation the issues I see are: IBM would not escape a surcharge even though they may not have caused any DWR costs. SImilarly, large San Diego customers, who have not caused any DWR costs, would be subject to a surcharge. I am having a hard time understanding what they intended to achieve with the clause ""The DWR Bond Charge shall take precedence over all other costs and disbursements to be paid from the fund and shall be paid from revenue derived 
The attached is a rough draft of a potential filing Enron would make in to Judge Wagner in the Settlement process (it is unclear if this would remain confidential per the gag order). Please provide Ray Alvarez your comments.  This would be filed as early as Monday am. Jim 
HERE IS THE MOST RECENT STATEMENT WITH STEVE'S COMMENTS. 
What did Enron decide? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/28/2000 07:12 PM 
FYI.  Seems like we've given the Governor quite a bit up to this point, but there may be some good reasons to, as they say, keep on giving.  Perhaps we can discuss further as part of our meeting on Monday. Best, Jeff ""Katie Kaplan"" <kaplan@iepa.com> 10/27/2000 06:20 PM Please respond to kaplan 
Greetings: IEP will be hosting a dinner for California Governor Gray Davis on Thursday, December 7, 2000 at the historic Julia Morgan House in Sacramento. We will be targeting to raise at least $100,000 so company contributions will range from $10,000-$20,000 per person ($10k minimum per person) depending on the number of respondents.  We have already received firm commitments from 3 companies. If you are interested in attending please e-mail me as soon as possible.  A formal invitation will follow to those who respond. We need responses or direction by no later than COB on Monday, October 30, 2000. Please contact me with any questions. Thank you, Katie Kaplan Manager of Policy IEP (916) 448-9499 
Harry -- Can you track down this bill and determine impact?  We'll discuss on Thursday. Jim 
Is AB 23XX moving with a chance of passage?   I just learned that this Pescetti bill that was AB 1425 was revived as a 2X bill.  It is very anti-competitive, and could hurt a number of TW, EES, or ENA gas deals by binding customers to 100% utility service through the imposition of large exit fees by the CPUC.  If there is a chance that it moves, we need to discuss the effect of this bill.  Mike Day http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_0001-0050/abx2_23_bill_20010625_amend ed_sen.pdf 
The games continue in California. The date of suspension now being considered in 83xx is July 12.  We are still working (1) to define this in a way that is favorable to getting our recent DASR group authorized for DA service or (2) supporting some other solution. Will keep everyone informed as information comes in. By the way, I've asked Evan Hughes for a detailed listing of how moving the date impacts our success ratio. Jim 
The attached indicates that UC/CSU are still not fully back to DA.  Does it make sense to try and get their help in making sure that the legislation does not limit their return to DA?  What is our current relationship with that customer? Also, does anyone have any problems with Govt Affairs using this information when we are asking for ""clarification"" on the July 12 date?  It may be helpful to highlight for the key legislative members exactly who they are hurting with their decisions. Thanks, Jim 
This is the daily report we get regarding DASR's.  We regularly scrub this report for accuracy but it can give you a feel for where we are in the process.  The ""CA DASR Scorecard"" is a summary. Again, we'll continue to improve the accuracy of the reporting and will keep you in the loop. Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks, Evan 
Here are the reports for the 9:00 CDT update. (See attached file: 071801 500 PM CA COMM STATUS RPRT.xls)   (See attached file: CA DASR Scorecard 071801 500PM.doc) - 071801 500 PM CA COMM STATUS RPRT.xls - CA DASR Scorecard 071801 500PM.doc 
Rumor is that the CPUC hearings will begin next week on the URG matters for PG&E and SCE.  Our bankruptcy team needs to be kept in the loop on these matters on a daily basis (as much as possible) given the impact of this decision on the process. Can people attend a conference call on Monday pm or Tuesday am to discuss the key objectives for this case (from bankruptcy perspectives) and coverage (do we need to get outside counsel to sit in the hearings)? I'll ask Linda Noske to coordinate the phone call. Thanks, 
Can you guys look into (quietly) the perspectives of the three utilities on the FERC decision?  It would be interesting to know especially about the question of refunds? Other parties perspectives would also be helpful. Jim 
I agree with much of what Jeff has written.  Here are some additions - On FERC getting a lot right, look at the Order in relation to our 4 key points filed in the White Paper - Removing Market Transparency - Still need FERC to take action Development of Forwards Market and Risk Management - Great results Removing distortions on Prices - Wrong action Ending Cal ISO / Cal PX Stakeholder Boards - Great results On the risk management issue, FERC itself said ""The single most important remedy that California market needs is the elimination of rules that prevent market participants from managing risk"". [FERC PRESS RELEASE] ADD - FERC Staff did a great job on preparing a detailed analysis of the market issues. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 11/01/2000 01:17 PM 
Here are the messages as I understand them.  Please let me know if I've misconstrued anything.  Thanks. FERC got  a lot right in the order and we're very encouraged as a result. In particular, ending the PX buy/sell requirement and permitting utilities to manage risk through a portfolio of short and long term contracts is a fundamental step in the right direction. However, the proposed price cap is unworkable and will jeopardize realibility in California.  As structured, it will: discourage the development of new generation to serve California fail to provide adequate incentives for demand responsiveness. force Enron to abandon 300 MWs of new power projects planned for California. We look forward to participating in FERC's process and are hopeful that FERC's final order will fix the deficiencies in the current price cap proposal. We encourage California to work with FERC to implement the proposals and quickly fix the flaws in the market on behalf of the state's consumers. 
Everything that I heard was that there wasn't anything to gain by attending this dinner.  I therefore assume that we did not give the $$.  My current thoughts are that if we want to give to Gov. Davis, let's give directly. Also, are we thinking about meeting with the Gov's key energy people and legislative members to share our perspective on the FERC Order. Jim 
I think we are Enron. I personally think the answer should be we're done with political donations to the Governor for 2000.  I don't see any marginal gain for the investment. 
What did Enron decide? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/28/2000 07:12 PM 
FYI.  Seems like we've given the Governor quite a bit up to this point, but there may be some good reasons to, as they say, keep on giving.  Perhaps we can discuss further as part of our meeting on Monday. Best, Jeff ""Katie Kaplan"" <kaplan@iepa.com> 10/27/2000 06:20 PM Please respond to kaplan 
Greetings: IEP will be hosting a dinner for California Governor Gray Davis on Thursday, December 7, 2000 at the historic Julia Morgan House in Sacramento. We will be targeting to raise at least $100,000 so company contributions will range from $10,000-$20,000 per person ($10k minimum per person) depending on the number of respondents.  We have already received firm commitments from 3 companies. If you are interested in attending please e-mail me as soon as possible.  A formal invitation will follow to those who respond. We need responses or direction by no later than COB on Monday, October 30, 2000. Please contact me with any questions. Thank you, Katie Kaplan Manager of Policy IEP (916) 448-9499 
Here are the talking points as combined.  If you want to change, let's make sure everyone knows. Jim 
Here is a note that highlights that companies can and will take on big bloc= ks=20 of customers at good rates (20% below the historic bundled rate).  New Powe= r=20 looks like it will win or at least share in the 300,000 customers. Something to think about in CA. Jim 
PennFuture's E-cubed is a commentary biweekly email publication concerning= =20 the current themes and trends in the energy market.=20 =20 November 3, 2000 Vol. 2, No. 22 =20 Pennsylvania's First Successful CDS Auction =20 An important new regulatory skirmish has broken out before the Pennsylvania= =20 Public Utility Commission (PUC) over which company has won the right to=20 provide default generation service to 300,000 customers of PECO Energy, an= =20 Exelon Company. This skirmish is actually good news for consumers and is th= e=20 fruit of the 1998 PECO Energy restructuring settlement agreement, a landmar= k=20 document that ended a ferocious regulatory war when all combatants signed i= t.=20 =20 The =01&peace treaty=018 includes a requirement that PECO Energy bid out de= fault=20 service for 20% of its customers, and PECO has done so. Green Mountain Ener= gy=20 Company is now challenging PECO Energy=01,s decision that New Power won the= =20 auction to provide the settlement=01,s mandated default service.=20 =20 Both Green Mountain and New Power are offering those 300,000 consumers smal= l=20 rate reductions compared to customers receiving default service from PECO,= =20 and more electricity generated from renewable energy resources. Specificall= y,=20 New Power and Green Mountain are offering generation service to Rate R=20 residential customers for approximately 5.54 cents per kilowatt-hour. That= =20 offer is 3.11 cents per kilowatt-hour less than PECO Energy=01,s unbundled= =20 generation and transmission rate of 8.65 cents per kilowatt-hour and 0.11= =20 cents per kilowatt-hour less than the shopping credit of 5.65.=20 =20 The consumer savings that these offers represent is masked or reduced by th= e=20 stranded cost payments that consumers must pay PECO Energy. Indeed, were it= =20 not for stranded cost payments, the New Power and Green Mountain offers wou= ld=20 reduce total bills by about 3.11 cents per kilowatt-hour, or 20%.=20 =20 The dispute between New Power and Green Mountain is noteworthy because it= =20 proves that companies will compete vigorously to provide default service if= =20 shopping credits and lengths of contracts are set at reasonable levels. It= =20 also shows that renewable energy portfolio standards can be met economicall= y.=20 Finally, the result of this case will switch more customers to competitive= =20 suppliers in one day than the total number who switched in California over = a=20 period of nearly three years.=20 =20 When the PUC anoints New Power or Green Mountain as the winner, if all=20 299,300 consumers opt to stay with the CDS provider, the total number of=20 customers in Pennsylvania that will be served by a competitive supplier wil= l=20 jump to more than 850,000. Of this total, 504,000 will be residential=20 customers of PECO, a number equal to 37% of the PECO residential class. =20 CDS Background: In Pennsylvania, there must always be a =01&default=018 sup= plier or=20 =01&provider of last resort=018 to assure that service is always available = to all=20 customers. The incumbent utility is the default supplier, unless the PUC=20 decides otherwise. The default supplier must provide generation service to= =20 customers who do not have a competitive supplier either because they chose= =20 not to shop or did not find a willing supplier at an acceptable price. The= =20 PECO Restructuring Case Settlement initially defined CDS service in paragra= ph=20 38: =20 =01&On January 1, 2001, 20% of all of PECO=01,s residential customers -- de= termined=20 by random selection, including low-income and inability-to-pay customers, a= nd=20 without regard to whether such customers are obtaining generation service= =20 from an EGS -- shall be assigned to a provider of last resort-default=20 supplier other than PECO that will be selected on the basis of a=20 Commission-approved energy and capacity market price bidding process. This= =20 service shall be referred to as Competitive Default Service (=01&CDS=018).= =018 =20 The same approach was used in the other Settlements in the GPU, PPL and APS= =20 restructuring cases. CDS reflects an effort to assure that there is at leas= t=20 one other large competitor in each market. CDS also has a renewable portfol= io=20 standard (RPS), even though there is no RPS for regulated utilities in=20 Pennsylvania. The winning bidder must supply:=20 =20 =01&=01(2.0% of its offered energy supply for CDS service from renewable re= sources=20 of solar, wind, sustainable biomass (including landfill gas but excluding= =20 incineration of Municipal Solid Waste), geothermal or ocean power. The=20 renewable energy increment shall increase by annual increments of 0.5%=20 thereafter.=018 =20 This increasing renewable requirement continues indefinitely, meaning that = in=20 year four of the CDS there will be a 3.5% renewable requirement, 4% in year= =20 five and so on. This is significant, as each extra percent of renewable=20 energy used to serve the 299,300 customer block prevents approximately 950= =20 tons of NOx, 3200 tons of SO2, and 390,000 tons of CO2 from being emitted b= y=20 fossil fuel burning power plants. =20 PECO=01,s CDS RFP: Importantly, the PECO/Unicom merger case modified the CD= S=20 bidding process as established by the 1998 settlement. Of particular note,= =20 the revisions eliminated the =01&customer care=018 functions from CDS, made= the=20 contract three years long to help spread out return of start-up costs, and= =20 instituted several rounds of selection in the event that prior efforts=20 yielded no successful CDS contract.=20 =20 PECO issued its initial RFP for CDS on April 6, 2000, and Shell Energy=20 Services submitted the only bid. However, the PUC rejected the bid as=20 non-conforming and denied Shell=01,s Petition for Reconsideration of its=20 decision. Pursuant to the modifications in the merger settlement, PECO=20 entered into bilateral negotiations based on an August 24, 2000 RFP.=20 =20 Three suppliers submitted conforming bids, and PECO selected New Power as t= he=20 winner on October 18, 2000. New Power is the new competitive supplier=20 actively marketing residential and small commercial customers in the PECO= =20 service territory and is backed by Enron, AOL, and IBM.=20 =20 PECO and New Power negotiated a complete contract that is before the PUC fo= r=20 approval on November 9, 2000. Under the proposal, PECO and New Power expand= ed=20 the size of the CDS requirement to include 22% (299,300) of non-shopping=20 residential customers instead of 20% of all residential customers, whether= =20 shopping or not. This change was designed to implement paragraph 39 of the= =20 Restructuring Settlement, requiring adjustments to the numbers assigned to= =20 CDS in order to have 35% of all PECO residential and commercial customers= =20 obtaining competitive generation as of January 1, 2001. There also will be = a=20 second round of assignment of non-shopping customers as of October 15, 2002= =20 if New Power is providing CDS to fewer than 20% of all PECO residential=20 customers =20 New Power electricity will be 2% renewable in 2001, 2.5% renewable in 2002,= =20 and 3% renewable in 2003 as required, but does not include a commitment to= =20 exceed the requirements or provide cleaner power for the non-renewable=20 portion of the product.=20 =20 The price for New Power=01,s CDS for Rate R customers would be 2.02% below = the=20 shopping credit, while residential heating customers on Rate RH would pay= =20 1.02% less than their shopping credit. For a Rate R customer, this would me= an=20 that overall rates would fall .8% (as energy and transmission falls from 5.= 65=20 to 5.54); for Rate RH rates would fall .44%. Customers assigned to CDS may= =20 still choose any competitive supplier, or opt out and retain default servic= e=20 from PECO without penalty or charge. New Power will be able to offer its fu= ll=20 slate of energy and non-energy related products to these customers. =20 Green Mountain asserts that approval of the PECO/New Power contract is =01&= not=20 in the public interest,=018 arguing that PECO ignored Green Mountain=01,s o= ffer=20 that included CDS pricing 2% below the shopping credit for all residential= =20 customers, including those on residential heating or off-peak service. Like= =20 the New Power proposal, the Green Mountain proposal would lower Rate R and = RH=20 rates .8% and .44%, respectively. Green Mountain asserts that the New Power= =20 rate cut for Rate R is only 1.83%, and not 2% and argues that its product i= s=20 better for the environment because the non-renewable portion of the product= =20 would come from natural gas and hydro instead of system power generated=20 primarily from coal and nuclear fuels. If not declared the winning bidder,= =20 Green Mountain proposes in the alternative that both they and New Power=20 receive CDS contracts. =20 In response, PECO states that all three bidders had the opportunity to subm= it=20 revised bids and that the Green Mountain revised bid was not submitted unti= l=20 October 12, 2000, 13 days after the deadline and nine days after the=20 selection of New Power as the winning bidder.=20 =20 The PUC will sort out the facts and arguments on November 9. Some think tha= t=20 the PUC may very well split the 300,000 customer block between Green Mounta= in=20 and New Power.=20 =20 Whatever the result, customers in the Philadelphia area should receive yet= =20 another small price reduction, more renewable energy, and the opportunity f= or=20 a more competitive electricity market.=20 E-cubed is available for reprint in newspapers and other publications.=20 Authors are available for print or broadcast.=20 Support E-cubed by becoming a member of PennFuture =01* visit our secure on= line=20 membership page at www.pennfuture.org by clicking on =01&Support Our Work.= =018 =20 PennFuture, with offices in Harrisburg, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, is a= =20 statewide public interest membership organization, which advances policies = to=20 protect and improve the state=01,s environment and economy. PennFuture=01,s= =20 activities include litigating cases before regulatory bodies and in local,= =20 state and federal courts, advocating and advancing legislative action on a= =20 state and federal level, public education and assisting citizens in public= =20 advocacy.=20 =20 We hope you found this informative and interesting. However, if you would= =20 prefer not to receive future issues, please reply to this email and type=20 
The way that I see it, the Rod Wright issues that are important the following -- everything else is either jurisdictionally questionable or can't fly on its own weight. 1. Reduce environmental roadblocks to bring more plants on line. WHY ARE WE ATTACKING THE ENVIRONMENT?  ANY PROBLEM IS A PROBLEM. 6. Provide IOU's with price management tools including bilateral contract and hedging authority. GREAT FOR EPMI SOLUTIONS. 15. Extend the rate freeze for PG&E and SCE beyond 3/2002 NEED FOR EES BOOK.   ALSO NEED THIS TO END THE RADICAL CALLS TO ""FIX"" THE WHOLESALE MARKETS WITH WHOLESALE MARKET PRICE CAPS. 19. Repayment of under collections for PG&E and SCE. OTHERWISE NOTHING ELSE WILL HAPPEN BECAUSE WE'LL BE FIGHTING ABOUT THIS ALL SESSION. 27. Utilities are deemed prudent in forward contracting. NEED THIS FOR EPMI DEALS. 28. Manage volatility for residential customers through OREGON solution. OR THROUGH DEFAULT SERVICE COMPETITION.  A MUST HAVE FOR POLITICIANS.  REAL QUESTION IS CAN THEY RAISE THE RATES A LITTLE TO MANAGE THE HIGHER COSTS AT 
Jeff -- thanks for the call today.  I agree with your perspective on CLEC status / implications for EBS. What we need to think about doing (as we discussed on the phone) is to come up with a regulatory risk assessment of becoming a CLEC in CA -- id key risks assess value at risk (quantitative and qualitative) develop mitigation plans (incld working to end the need to be a CLEC), and assign people to manage the plans. Happy to help as much as possible.  We should try and have this and then discuss with broader EBS WG. Thanks. JDS Jeff Dasovich on 01/24/2000 04:08:28 PM 
you mean you've looked through the contract and still couldn't find them? p.s. ""jeffrina"" is a very ""21st century"" name for little baby girls.  just read about it in vogue magazine. 
Joe, etal -- Given the current state of regulatory risk selling into the CA markets, is there any way to move FERC to expedite a process wherein they would ""predetermine"" the information necessary to demonstrate our reasonableness (both for under $150/Mwh and over $150/Mwh)? It seems to me that an Enron only filing will not motivate FERC to act, but rather we need WPTF and EPSA (others?) to sign-on to our request for rapid treatment. At a minimum, I need to know the broad outlines of such a filing and the procedural steps for this filing by end of business today. Also, can we canvas EPSA (Julie Simon) and WPTF (??) to see if any other members are thinking about responding to this issue through the trade associations. This is very critical of the desk. Jim 
It is my understanding that this letter will be sent to the CPUC today.  I don't have any reservations with the content or format. Jim 
Please let either Gary or me know your thoughts and comments regarding the below draft letter to the CPUC. Thanks, Peter > PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL > ATTORNEY CLIENT COMMUNICATION > ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT > > > > Harvey Morris Esq. > California Public Utilities Commission > 505 Public Utilities Commission > San Francisco, California   94102 > >  Re:   I.00-08-002  Subpoenas Served on Enron Power Marketing, Inc. > (""EPMI""), Enron Energy Services Operations Inc. and Enron Energy Services > Inc. (collectively referred to as ""EES""), Enron Energy Marketing > Corporation (""EEMC""), and Portland General Electric Corporation (""Portland > General"")(collectively sometimes referred to as the ""Enron Entities"") > > Harvey, > >  I am writing in response to the various voicemail exchanges and > phone calls between Michael Day, on behalf of the Enron Entities, and > yourself during the past few weeks.  Here is the current status as we > understand it.  Based upon the agreements we reached between October 6, > 2000 and October 18, 2000 (date of your confirming email) the Enron > Entities have made the following document productions in response to the > subpoenas served by California Public Utilities Commission (the > ""Commission""): > > * October 13, 2000  Bate Nos. Enron Entities 000001-000025 on behalf > of all Enron Entities Responsive to Request Nos. 1-11, 20. > > * October 27, 2000 Bate Nos. P000001-002115 on behalf of Portland > General Responsive to Request Nos. 12, 14, 16 and 18. > > * November 14, 2000 Bate No. Enron Entities 000026 (Diskette with > EES/EEMC retail data) Responsive to Request Nos. 7 to 11, 13, 15 to 17, > and 19. > > * November 15, 2000 Bate No. P002116-002117 (Diskettes with Portland > General Data, which include approximate 355,000 wholesale transactions) > Responsive to Request Nos. 7 to 11, 13 to 17, and 19. > > We believe with these productions, we have complied with the October > 6-18th agreement with respect to Portland General and EES/EEMC.  As you > know, these productions were all made reserving the Enron Entities rights > to object or challenge the subpoenas and reserving any claims, defenses, > objections, jurisdictional or otherwise, or other responses. > >  We originally had hoped to have all of the Transactional Data for > EPMI, as defined in our October 6th email, available for production by > October 27th.  However, we were also mindful of your expressed expectation > that any data provided be useful and reliable.  The collection of data you > requested in the subpoenas is neither kept electronically in the same > location nor organized as you requested it.  In fact during our review of > some of the data we found significant errors that called into question the > methodology by which the data was extracted from existing information. > When it became apparent that we could not accurately estimate how long it > would take to get reliable data given the volume of transactions involved, > we informed you of the problem.  We now understand that if we cannot give > you a firm date when the balance of the Transactional Data will be > available, the Commission believes it will have no choice but to seek to > compel production before the Federal Regulatory Energy Commission > (""FERC"").  We understand the pressure that you must be under to get data > immediately, but we cannot, at this time, give you another date in the > immediate future by which we are certain that we will be able to produce > accurate data. > >  Moreover, during the iterim between October 18th and today, a number > of significant events have occurred that we believe bear on the subpoenas > served on the Enron entities.  First, we understand that many other > parties who were served with the same subpoenas have not provided the > detailed information requested and have objected on a variety of very > sound legal grounds.  Second, the Commission itself has, without a hearing > on the motion, unilaterally revised the proposed protective order that is > supposed to govern these productions and summarily denied other changes > sought by other parties served.  Third, the Commission has filed its > motion before FERC seeking an order compelling the production of the data > from those other parties that have objected and seeking an expedited > hearing and production schedule.  We note that the reasons stated in the > motion before FERC as the basis for the production are materially > different than the reasons originally stated in the ex parte application > to the Commission's own Administrative Law Judge who issued the subpoenas. > Finally, FERC itself has completed its investigation and has issued a > tentative order as of November 1, 2000. > >  Originally, the Enron Entities had been prepared to accept ""most > favored nation"" treatment with respect to protective orders and requests > by others to limit the scope of the subpoenas and produce information that > was available.  However, given both the Commission's stated urgent need > for an immediate answer that EPMI cannot in good faith give despite > substantial effort (date for production of reliable and accurate > Transaction Data) and the uncertainty created by the above described > intervening events, EPMI believes it has no choice but to serve its formal > objections and responses to the subpoenas and await the Commission's > threatened motion to compel before FERC. > >  We also understand from our discussions with you that the Commission > has created various lists or categories for the entities that have been > served with subpoenas.  We understand that there is a list for those > entities that have been cooperating, a list for those who have been > delaying and a list for those who have been objecting and exercising their > rights to challenge the subpoenas.  We understand that the Commission > intends to punish, by whatever means it has available, those entities that > object and exercise their rights to challenge the subpoenas.  We deplore > these tactics, but despite all of the efforts to cooperate described > above, we understand that EPMI may in fact be moved from the cooperating > list to the group to be punished for exercising its rights. > >  If you have and questions or comments, please do not hesitate to > contact me. > >         Sincerely, > > > >         Gary S. > Fergus ======================================================= This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@brobeck.com BROBECK PHLEGER & HARRISON LLP http://www.brobeck.com 
FYI.  I don't have a problem with this. Joe, who should  work with Christian to make sure that the details are ""sufficient""? Jim 
Yesterday, we (Tim Belden, Greg Wolfe, Steve Hall , John Forney,  and a new regulatory person whose name I apologize for not remembering)  had a meeting to decide what practical legal steps we should take to mitigate any refund risk, particularly the risk of selling power above the price cap.  The result of the meeting was a decision  to (i) attempt on a case by case basis  to get our services customers to acknowledge,  in writing,  terms of allocating at least some of the  responsibility for price refunds, and (ii) create  a way to document our cost justification where we sell above the cap,  which will allow us to begin making the requisite filings to the FERC in January. If  you  see  any compelling,   big picture reason(s)  for concern with the 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Alan -- Here are my comments with redline.  Some formatting and some changes. Thanks. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 11/21/2000 09:09 PM 
Here's the latest.   If you make comments, please make them on this version. Fax comments to BOTH 530-327-9235 (yes, ""530"")  and 503-464-3740 or email the comments to AComnes@enron.com with redline/strikout turned on. Kim Curry, please take a formatting pass if you can first thing Wed and email back to me when done. Alan Comnes 
Alan -- Some other thoughts: 1. Are we sure that we have the permission from the SC customers that we can give out their information?  Someone may want to get the names of these parties and more details. 2. Should we move the market power section to the third point and bring up points 2 and 3? Thanks. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 11/21/2000 09:09 PM 
Here's the latest.   If you make comments, please make them on this version. Fax comments to BOTH 530-327-9235 (yes, ""530"")  and 503-464-3740 or email the comments to AComnes@enron.com with redline/strikout turned on. Kim Curry, please take a formatting pass if you can first thing Wed and email back to me when done. Alan Comnes 
----- Message from ""Tracey Bradley"" <tbradley@bracepatt.com> on Wed, 22 Nov 2000 08:52:22 -0600 ----- 
U.S. energy sec says FERC proposals not enough-WSJ NEW YORK, Nov 22 (Reuters) - U.S. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson will propose on Wednesday stricter bidding rules in California's energy auction market and a broader investigation of market abuse, the Wall Street Journal reported in its electronic edition Wednesday. The paper reported Richardson as saying fixes proposed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for the troubled California electricity market stopped short of what was needed to control runaway prices. Earlier this month FERC issued a plan designed to reform California's deregulated power market after prices soared to record levels this year, sparking a public outcry. On Tuesday, the California Public Utilities Commission on voted to ask federal regulators to impose price caps on the state's wholesale power market. The state regulator also said in a statement it is to make a filing with FERC on Wednesday arguing FERC's proposed remedies for the state's troubled power market were inadequate to protect consumers. Richardson is offering to be a mediator, and says he wants to end fierce bickering between federal and state officials over who is to blame for dozens of electrical emergencies this year, the newspaper said. The energy secretary said he thinks the FERC, which regulates wholesale U.S. energy markets, needed to investigate allegations of market abuse more aggressively, utilising its subpoena powers, the paper added. New York Newsroom (212) 859-1700 
As I've been thinking about our response today, I would like Enron to focus on making sure that the California (WSCC) markets are as good a possible for business over the next 15 to 24 months.  Following that idea, I think that the key points are (1) clarifying/raising the soft cap and (2) reducing the burden/risk of the prospective refund period. I know that we had discussed leading off with the debate over market power / retroactive refunds, but I think that (a) FERC is not inclined to do much more on this issue, (b) FERC wants to fix the market as much as it can given the current political realities, and (c) if retroactive refunds become an issue, we still have our full compliment of resources to later fight this fight. I would recommend that the pleading and Alan's testimony be modified to bring these issues to the top of the ticket.   We should still include all of our other arguments. Finally, I want to make sure that Enron is taking the right position by quietly supporting a $250/Mwh soft cap with safe harbor fixes?  Sue Mara, can you please try and find out what EPSA, IEPCA, and WPTF are going to file?  I want to make sure that we are in the ball park on this issue but not getting too soft. Jim 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Ron -- I would not use the word ""hard"" in the language.  How about -- In addition, if the Commission insists on a cap it must at a minimum establish a higher hard price cap and provide that the refund obligation will not be applicable to sales below that   a reasonable level.  Such a safe harbor is required to prevent disincentives to the development of new generation and to ensure liquidity and reliability in the California market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/22/2000 02:54 PM 
This is my last edit. I.    Market Designs B. Paragraph 3 - Should be rewritten as follows: In sum, the Commission's proposal for a soft cap, combined with the complex nature of the reporting requirement and refund potential has introduced substantial uncertainty in the market and therefore substantial risk of and disincentive to do business in the California market.  To ensure participation, the Commission needs to create clear, uncomplicated review standards.  In addition, if the Commission insists on a cap it must at a minimum establish a higher hard price cap and provide that the refund obligation will not be applicable to sales below that level.  Such a safe harbor is required to prevent disincentives to the development of new generation and to ensure liquidity and reliability in the California market. 
I. Market Design A. Delete the clause beginning ""at a minimum ...."" from the title. 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Chris -- I am not too optimistic that we are going to get either the CPUC or the California Legislature to provide for competitive default supply.   I don't think that the utilities would want it nor do I think that with all of the other problems in California this will occur within the next 12 months. The best chance is simply to get the utilities to recognize (as the call from SCE appears to indicate) that there is price risk with their residual load and to seek to forward contract.  We are working (and I think that there is a strong sentiment amongst most California electricity wonks) to remove any barriers to utilities contracting forward.  This should put EPMI on a level footing to compete to manage the UDCs price risk with other people in the industry. Government Affairs met today in SF to discuss our goals for the upcoming Legislative session (which promises to be very interesting).  Competitive default supply is on the agenda, but I would put it behind utility forward contracting on the list of priorities. Jim Chris H Foster@ECT 11/30/2000 11:30 AM 
Jill Horswell, the head of trading at SCE, just called.  She said the CEO of SCE asked her to call around and see if energy marketing companies would be interested in offering the ""Duke SDG&E Structure,"" (i.e full requirements at $60/MWhr) to SCE.  I told her that that would be a big bite for anyone, and that the price would be well north of $60, but we would be interested in coming up with a structure for their consideration if they wanted to take this a step further. We decided in the case of SDG&E that we didn't have an interest in a true full requirements deal given the size (3,000 MW) and the difficulty in managing the load fluctuations, credit risks, etc.  The size and scope of a similar deal with SCE (20,000 MW) would be even more daunting. Is this an opportunity to propose a new market structure for serving load to try to build part of the solution to California's energy woes?  How should the default provider be determined?  How can credit and load fluctuation risks be managed?  Can we build a consortium of market support amongst our fellow defendants (i.e Duke, Southern, et al)? Let me know what you think. Chris 
Alan - My read of the report is that the MSC wants a 2 year fixed price (establish= ed=20 by some administrative procedure that works off of the natural gas index) f= or=20 small commercial and residential retail customers and then they want to for= ce=20 all suppliers (SCs) that participated in the Cal ISO market in 1999 to meet= =20 this physical and financial obligation [isn't that a taking?]. =20 They only want the fixed price for 2 years because they want to capture the= =20 downside opportunity in later years (real generous). It seems that the same result could be had if the UDCs contracted forward f= or=20 80% of their small commercial and residential with people like us (or DENA = in=20 SDG&Es case). =20 I don't know if we need to respond directly.  We may want to understand wha= t=20 type of obligation this would put on EPMI and EES (how many Mwh) for 2 year= s=20 and try and figure out what our mandatory sales price would be under their= =20 model? Give me a call. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/04/2000 12:36 PM =20 
All: I just downloaded the attached from the ISO's website.  It is dated 12/1/00= . =20 To boil it down, the MSC comes down against ""soft"" caps and recommends the= =20 ""get market-based rates in return for selling forward"" proposal that the IS= O=20 staff is pushing.  Forward contracts would need to at rates that=20 ""approximate"" competitive prices.  Based on my quick read that does not mea= n=20 market prices; it means somthing more akin to cost of service.  MSC also=20 wants there to be a penalty on generators for underscheduling.  They also= =20 claim there proposal will not exacerbate reliability problems. I would be interested in people's opinion if Enron should be responding to= =20 this report.  Given the date of the report, I am not sure if/how the ISO=20 would file this at the FERC. G. Alan Comnes (GAC) Here's the list of recommendations from the report. (1) The PX =01&must-buy=018 requirement would become a =01&must-schedule=01= 8 requirement.=20 IOUs would be required to schedule all forward energy through the PX, but would = be=20 free to purchase it from any source. (2) California generators and entities that sell to any California purchase= r=20 (not limited to the PX and ISO) could continue to be eligible for market-based rates (and would= =20 be free of refund obligations) only if they offer a substantial portion of their sales= =20 in the form of two-year contracts at rates that approximate competitive prices. The detail= s=20 of such a proposal are outlined in this report. The volume offered by sellers, in the= =20 aggregate, would be sufficient to cover the all three IOUs=01, residential and small= =20 commercial customer load using an average load profile for weekdays and weekends for= =20 each month. (3) Any market participant that does not offer these two-year=20 market-power-mitigation forward contracts would be subject to cost-of-service rates for all of thei= r=20 sales of energy and ancillary services into the California market for at least the two-year= =20 market power mitigation period. (4) The CPUC would be encouraged to set a default rate for IOU residential= =20 and small commercial customers based on projected wholesale energy costs under the=20 2-year contracts described above. (5) The under-scheduling penalty should be even-handed. The MSC recommends = a=20 real-time trading charge that is applicable both to load and generation and, more=20 important, does not distinguish between instructed and uninstructed deviations from schedul= e. 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
FYI.  Not sure if you had seen this.  Hogan makes many of the arguments about the BB&W study that you made. His other interesting conclusion is that operating reserve policies that obligate ISOs to pay up to infinity may be nonsensical.  Not sure if Enron wants to take a position on this thought. Jim 
Having read the Hogan paper, I think that the ""academic"" community is somewhat divided on this issue.  If we want to move forward on the issues Joskow addresses, I would recommend that EPSA be the vehicle.  The entire marketer / generator community needs to counter. What do people think about seeking activity through EPSA, WPTF, and/or IEP of CA  to push back on the studies and analysis especially after the Dec 13 Order?  I don't think that the discussions will be ending very soon. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/07/2000 03:07 AM 
The Joskow/Kahn paper raises two issues:  price above cost  and witholding. Enron obviously has concerns with the ""price above cost"" analysis.  I drafted some specific concerns and put them into a draft to Enron's reponse to Hoeker Question 1.  Although the detail was dropped in the final draft, the basic technical concerns were laid out there. To really rebut Joskow/Kahn would take considerable work.  Jeff D's idea was to write a paper that raised issues and indicated how complicated a ""correct"" response would  be. The Joskow/Kahn withholding section has recieved criticism from the ISO so I am not sure Enron needs to respond to that. I think my bottom line now is that the debate at FERC will soon be over or enter a new stage on the 13th.  As far as how a response would help us in California, I think requires a discussion with Jeff. Alan 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Having read the Hogan paper, I think that the ""academic"" community is somewhat divided on this issue.  If we want to move forward on the issues Joskow addresses, I would recommend that EPSA be the vehicle.  The entire marketer / generator community needs to counter. What do people think about seeking activity through EPSA, WPTF, and/or IEP of CA  to push back on the studies and analysis especially after the Dec 13 Order?  I don't think that the discussions will be ending very soon. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/07/2000 03:07 AM 
The Joskow/Kahn paper raises two issues:  price above cost  and witholding. Enron obviously has concerns with the ""price above cost"" analysis.  I drafted some specific concerns and put them into a draft to Enron's reponse to Hoeker Question 1.  Although the detail was dropped in the final draft, the basic technical concerns were laid out there. To really rebut Joskow/Kahn would take considerable work.  Jeff D's idea was to write a paper that raised issues and indicated how complicated a ""correct"" response would  be. The Joskow/Kahn withholding section has recieved criticism from the ISO so I am not sure Enron needs to respond to that. I think my bottom line now is that the debate at FERC will soon be over or enter a new stage on the 13th.  As far as how a response would help us in California, I think requires a discussion with Jeff. Alan 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Mary -- Can you make sure that the EES is looped in to the call?  Neil, I've heard that FERC may move the meeting to Friday. Jim 
Will you make sure we are in the loop with the FERC meeting on the 13th ?  We may want our own log in down here on the desk. Can you let us know how that is done and what the cost is. Thanks 
I still think that Enron shouldn't be the lead.  We need the industry to respond.  Hartsoe doesn't think that EPSA will be interested in spending the $. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 12/11/2000 11:59 AM 
Sounds very good. Might be useful to get a ""reputable"" economist to write a paper that 1) describes traditional means for defining, identifying and mitigating market power, 2) compares those with the ""new"" means folks are coming up with these days,  and 3) comments on the ""split"" in the academic community over the issues. When Steve Kean and I discussed the notion initially, thought it might be a good idea to gently ""pile on"" to the public discussion with the goal of making clear 1) just how complex this issue is and 2) how important it will be to have a thorough analysis (say, about 12+ months worth?) before rushing to judgment on anything Joskow might allege in his paper.  Thoughts? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 12/11/2000 10:02 AM 
Having read the Hogan paper, I think that the ""academic"" community is somewhat divided on this issue.  If we want to move forward on the issues Joskow addresses, I would recommend that EPSA be the vehicle.  The entire marketer / generator community needs to counter. What do people think about seeking activity through EPSA, WPTF, and/or IEP of CA  to push back on the studies and analysis especially after the Dec 13 Order?  I don't think that the discussions will be ending very soon. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/07/2000 03:07 AM 
The Joskow/Kahn paper raises two issues:  price above cost  and witholding. Enron obviously has concerns with the ""price above cost"" analysis.  I drafted some specific concerns and put them into a draft to Enron's reponse to Hoeker Question 1.  Although the detail was dropped in the final draft, the basic technical concerns were laid out there. To really rebut Joskow/Kahn would take considerable work.  Jeff D's idea was to write a paper that raised issues and indicated how complicated a ""correct"" response would  be. The Joskow/Kahn withholding section has recieved criticism from the ISO so I am not sure Enron needs to respond to that. I think my bottom line now is that the debate at FERC will soon be over or enter a new stage on the 13th.  As far as how a response would help us in California, I think requires a discussion with Jeff. Alan 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
FYI.  Not sure who (if anyone) is responding. Jim 
The ISO is proposing to file the attached DG tariff provision with FERC.  I assume you are all over this(?) 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Mary & Joe -- Given the time frame for our response (2 - 4 minutes), we need to prepare not only our ""leave behind"" but also our ""oral message"". I want to make sure that everyone agrees with the theme and content of our verbal discussions.  Can you please put out an outline of the message and details and then make sure the Trading desk and CA Govt Affairs agree with the form and delivery (set up a conference call if necessary)? This is a very complicated issue and very short time frame to deliver.  The more we prepare I think the better we'll do. Thanks, Jim Mary Hain@ECT 08/22/2000 08:28 AM 
Attached is new and improved version of the FERC presentation.  Delete the one I sent you yesterday.  Detach and play ""slide show"" to see the short version that would be used for the presentation.  The additional pages would be distributed in hard copy as a reference document.   The document includes a few minor corrections and spellchecks, formats, etc. 
Bruno -- We should contact Mike Day as soon as possible and have him prepared to dra= ft=20 legislative fixes for any bill that would come out looking like the Wood=20 Draft Decision consistent with the issues you outlined below.  I want to ma= ke=20 sure that we are prepared for this possibility. =20 FYI, given the information I have, the Wood Draft Decision is more favorabl= e=20 for Enron's attempt at becoming the wholesale supplier to SDG&E.  It looks= =20 pretty tough to beat the Duque Decision. Jim Bruno Gaillard 08/22/2000 09:02 PM 
The events described below represent what has happened today. The situation= =20 is in constant flux. However, we need to know our position in case any of t= he=20 bellow does occurred. =20 Scott Baugh, Republican Assembly Leader, had a press conference in which th= e=20 republicans declared that: They accept Duque's Decision as is.=20 They are going to, request a special legislative session starting September= 1 The legislative session is going to look into supplementing focusing on=20 granting the Governor emergency power for supply side issues and streamlini= ng=20 sitting. Furthermore, they will propose to provide relief in addition to=20 Duque's decision, by providing  an extra $300 MM, retroactive to June 1,=20 2000,  to schools, hospitals and local government in the form of a tax cred= it=20 or cut and from the general fund. =20 They do not support the Davis/Alpert Bill (SDG&E Rate Freeze). (However, th= e=20 San Diego Republicans will probably vote for it). This also seems to take some wind out of the Pescetti bill (Freeze Extensio= n). This seems to be a political play. We do not believe that the republicans= =20 think that the Governor will actually declare a special session. The Alpert= =20 bill will  most likely be heard tomorrow. We do not know in which form and= =20 whether or not it will be amended. There also is a current rumor that a new bill may be introduce that would p= ut=20 the Wood Draft Decision into a bill. Our comments on the Wood decision focu= s=20 mostly on the recovery mechanism, limiting the application of the cap to=20 bundled customerrs, and insuring that only those that benefited from the ca= p=20 paid for the costs associated with  the cap. Attached is a brief summary of Woods proposal. caps the energy component of bills for residential, small commercial and=20 street lighting customers at 6.5 cents/kwh 
FYI.  The attached briefing isn't great news for consumers in the Western markets.  The key conclusion is that: ""CERA expects this shoulder season to differ from years past, however, with power and gas markets producing strong year-over-year prices and little 
Alert fyi   a   very good recap  of upcoming  market trends..Marg 
Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Tue, August 22, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: A Shoulder Month Without Shoulder Prices Author: Zenker, Snyder, Moritzburke E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Western Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1320 , Alternate URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ce/alt/082200_18/ce_alt_082200_18_ab.html ********************************************************************** As western markets continue to struggle through high August demand and prices for both power and natural gas, September looms as the start of the fall shoulder season. The shoulder season historically has brought the possibility of a break in weather and a demand drop in both power and gas prices from summer levels. CERA expects this shoulder season to differ from years past, however, with power and gas markets producing strong year-over-year prices and little relief from summer levels, even with normal September weather. West-wide power loads will decline but will remain similar to those in June, a month with high power prices. In addition, compared with June levels hydroelectric capacity has dropped owing to reduced stream flows, leaving more expensive gas-fired generation to replace declining hydroelectric output. CERA expects occasional hot weather and higher gas prices to push on-peak prices in the West to 244 percent over September 1999 levels. Continued strong use of gas-fired generation in the West, as well as low US storage inventories and tight supply demand balances, will keep the pressure on gas prices. Topock prices are expected to average $4.45 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) in September. These high September gas and power prices are driven by * Declining hydroelectric output. The months of September through November represent the low point for hydroelectric output in the West, with rainfall historically boosting output in December. Approximately 16,400 average megawatts (aMW) will be available from hydroelectric facilities during the three-month period. This represents a net reduction in capacity of 6,900 aMW when compared with the recent June-August summer months and a reduction of 3,600 aMW when compared with September 1999 levels. * Higher, more variable power demand. The Southwest and Southern California still experience hot weather in September, and regional utilities typically consider it possible that a year's peak load event will occur in September. Spiking loads, however, can quickly retreat with a return to cooler weather. Thus, power loads and power prices are expected to experience a high degree of variability during September. * High levels of gas-fired generation. Load growth and a declining hydroelectric resource base will require gas-fired resources to serve approximately the same level of demand as in June 2000, a month with similar average demand and monthly average on-peak power prices in the $150-$178 per megawatt-hour (MWh) range, depending on the region. This strong pull on gas-fired plants will push deep into the generation resource base, driving prices upward. An additional 1.7 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day will be required for gas-fired generators in the US West compared with September 1999 levels. * Strong North American gas prices. Natural gas prices are expected to retain most of this summer's peak levels, as North American supplies remain tight. A market anxious about winter demand and price levels will also limit a price retreat this fall. As a result, average September Henry Hub prices are expected to trade around $3.95 per MMBtu. An active storm season could keep Henry Hub prices near the $4.50 mark. * Strong western basis differentials. The strong demand for gas to serve gas-fired generation and storage concurrently will maintain western basis differentials at high levels, especially in the California markets. CERA expects a Topock-to-Henry Hub differential of $0.40 per MMBtu during September. Extended operational problems associated with El Paso's pipeline rupture would raise that outlook. Regional Power Market Drivers Hotter-than-normal August weather, transmission and generator outages, high natural gas prices, and declining hydroelectric output all contributed to a rise in power price levels during August. Southern California average power prices in August have thus far exceeded July levels by an average of $90 per MWh during the on-peak period and by $14 per MWh during the off-peak period. Mid-Columbia power prices, bearing the brunt of fire-induced transmission outages, experienced a jump from July price levels of $114 per MWh for the on-peak period and $20 per MWh in the off-peak period. Off-peak prices, which have averaged above $60 per MWh during the June-August period, are clearly defined by the production cost of gas-fired resources. On-peak prices during this same period, at over $100 per MWh in all regions in all months, have reflected a significant premium at times over the cost of the marginal system generator (see Table 1). A return to normal weather should drive West-wide loads down by 8,300 aMW in September from August levels. However, load growth and a return to normal weather are expected to push loads up by 5,400 aMW when compared with September 1999 levels. These greater loads, coupled with a reduction in hydroelectric generation of 3,600 aMW from last September's levels, will create supply tightness during September (see Tables 2 and 3). Hydroelectric, coal, and nuclear generation together will be insufficient to serve West-wide demand in September, even during much of the off-peak periods, requiring gas-fired resources to meet a significant portion of the load. Gas demand for power generation is expected to average 5.2 Bcf per day in September, down from over 5.9 Bcf per day in August but up by a dramatic 1.7 Bcf per day compared with levels in September 1999. September power prices will be defined by a floor set by the incremental cost of gas-fired generation, approximately $50 per MWh, with prices frequently higher as demand increases. As this summer has clearly demonstrated, prices rise in a nonlinear fashion as supplies grow very tight. Hot weather-induced loads should provide additional examples of this relationship. * Cooler- or hotter-than-normal weather in September, coupled with the inherent high variability of September loads, will produce a wide range of price outcomes. Under normal weather, on-peak power prices are expected to fall in the $113-$123 per MWh range, depending on location, representing a 244 percent premium to year-ago September prices (see Figure 1). The latest revision of the California Independent System Operator's (ISO's) imbalance energy market cap down to $250 per MWh is expected to depress market prices during any weather events in September. CERA expects the ISO price cap to limit prices outside of California as well. Pacific Northwest Although demand levels in the Pacific Northwest are expected to retreat in September by at least 1,100 aMW compared with those in the hotter-than-normal month of August, the loss in available capacity from hydroelectric resources will amount to 1,900 aMW over the same period (see Table 4). Thus, the Pacific Northwest will be in an even more limited position to export power to other regions. With transmission interties operating at below rated capacity during this period, power prices in the Pacific Northwest will maintain their tight relationship with those in Northern California. These price levels will continue to support the operation of the region's limited quantity of gas-fired generation. Mid-Columbia on-peak price levels are expected to average $118 per MWh in September. Off-peak power price levels in the Pacific Northwest will also receive a boost from the strong markets to the south. The expected September level of $54 per MWh represents the opportunity cost of power sales in surrounding markets. California The fall months initiate a seasonal shift in price differentials that separates the West into markets that lie north of transmission Path 15 and those to the south. As in years past, hydro-depleted Northern California should experience demand levels that must be served by generation resources within the region. Exports from the Pacific Northwest dwindle, and energy from the nuclear and coal-rich Southwest is constrained from entering Northern California by Path 15 import limitations. This condition, which is expected to persist from September through November, allows Northern California to price at a premium. The expected monthly average on-peak Northern California price of $123 per MWh incorporates this dynamic. Notably, the California ISO is completing a process to remap the zones in California, in part to capture locational price differences more effectively. Southern California, like the Southwest, will typically experience hot weather episodes in September. During these high demand periods, prices will rise to peak levels as experienced this summer. In addition, California as a whole should see average loads in September that are 4,600 aMW higher than those of September 1999. Occasional cooler weather will sharply but temporarily reduce daily prices. Southern California benefits from the abundant export capacity of the Southwest during cooler weather in that region, allowing prices to fall well below those in Northern California. An $8 per MWh differential between the north and south portions of the state is expected, with Southern California on-peak prices averaging $115 per MWh. Off-peak prices of $53 and $47 per MWh for Northern and Southern California, respectively, reflect the continued need for gas-fired resources to support September off-peak loads. Rockies and Southwest An extended period of hot weather in July and August has boosted demand in the Rockies, a region with growing saturation of residential air conditioning. Limited transmission capacity and a dearth of cheaper exports from surrounding regions have allowed the Rockies to price temporarily at a premium to all other regions in the West. A return to normal weather in September should restore the previously tight relationship of Rockies prices to those in the North. Rockies prices are expected to fall with loads, with a September monthly on-peak price average of $113 per MWh and an off-peak price average of $43 per MWh. CERA expects Southwest prices to be tightly connected to prices in Southern California on a monthly average basis. The two regions generally experience the same September weather patterns, and a strong 7,600 MW transmission link between the two market centers allows them to balance loads with each other. Strong gas prices and occasional market tightness-induced price run-ups will maintain on-peak prices at the $115 per MWh level in September. Off-peak prices will, like those in Southern California, be buoyed by the high cost of gas-fired generation. A price level of $47 per MWh is expected for off-peak prices. Regional Gas Market Drivers The summer competition for gas supply between power and storage continues in North America, with gas prices reflecting the intensity of that competition. Even as the summer power peak subsides in September across the United States, the need to continue strong storage injections and the threat of storms in the Gulf will keep prices high and volatile. The storage deficit now stands at approximately 350 Bcf, and US storage inventories look likely to head into winter at historically low levels. This critical storage situation will keep prices high despite overall declines in power loads in September. CERA expects a Henry Hub price of $3.95 per MMBtu during September. In the West strong power loads and the potential for power peaks persist through September, especially in California. Overall, total demand for gas is expected to decline across the West from 10.1 Bcf per day during August to 9.8 Bcf per day during September (see Table 5). This load will tend to keep intraregional differentials wide throughout the West during the month. The recent price disconnects between the supply-rich Rocky Mountains and San Juan Basin and demand-charged California will persist. October should bring some change in this dynamic as heating loads in the Rockies begin to increase. In general, winter will bring a dramatic shift in regional pricing differentials throughout the West. The summer pressure on Rocky Mountain supplies caused by high utilization rates on most export pipelines will be relieved somewhat by regional heating loads. Declines in flows into the San Juan Basin from the Rockies will take some downward pressure off prices in the San Juan. On the other hand, healthy California storage inventories should limit price premiums at Topock through the heating season. The start-up of the new Alliance pipeline, which will draw gas to the Midwest, will support prices in the Pacific Northwest and California. California Topock continues to be the premium pricing point in North America, although differentials between Southern California and the Henry Hub subsided somewhat from peak levels near $1.00 per MMBtu before this weekend's pipeline explosion. Total imports into California reached record levels during July; total imports of 5.8 Bcf per day eclipsed the previous high by 300 million cubic feet (MMcf) per day (see Table 6). Pipeline capacity into the state during the month ran at 83 percent utilization. So far in August, pipeline capacity utilization is exceeding even that high rate, running at 85 percent. These high rates of capacity utilization are putting pressure on gas prices in Southern California, and the pressure should continue during September. Total demand in California is expected to decline somewhat during September, but continued strong power loads and low seasonal hydroelectric generation will provide support. Total demand in the state should average 6.6 Bcf per day, down only slightly from August's total of 6.8 Bcf per day. Flows into the state between August and September are not likely to change significantly, but price pressure should decline somewhat with demand. The Topock differential to the Henry Hub should average approximately $0.50 per MMBtu for September (see Table 7). Storage inventories in the West are still healthy relative to levels in the rest of the United States, but the storage surplus in the region has eroded. In California, inventories are running lower than last year, and the deficit in the state looks likely to widen during September. The end of injection season storage inventories will determine the vulnerability of Topock differentials to winter price spikes. Pacific Northwest Malin prices this summer have shown neither the strong premiums that Topock prices have shown nor the wide discounts that supplies in the Rocky Mountains and San Juan Basins have shown. So far this month, prices at Malin are averaging a $0.25 per MMBtu discount to the Henry Hub. Pipeline capacity into the region from the Rocky Mountains is running nearly full; flows on PGT out of Alberta have averaged nearly 2.2 Bcf per day this month. Export capacity out of the region on PGE GT NW is running close to capacity, and pipeline constraints to the south combined with strong California demand are driving the wide Malin-to-Topock differentials. Continuing strong demand in the South will likely keep Topock prices strong, and the wide north-south differentials within the West will likely hold through September. In the Pacific Northwest demand is expected to climb through September to 1.5 Bcf per day from 1.4 Bcf per day in August. This demand level should keep Malin differentials from widening from current levels. For September CERA expects Malin prices to average $0.10 per MMBtu below the Henry Hub price. Southwest Prices in the San Juan Basin this summer have been left behind by rising California demand. Although the westward pull on supplies is strong, bottlenecks between California and the San Juan have led to disconnects between San Juan prices and Topock prices. Pipeline capacity utilization rates on Transwestern and the northern leg of El Paso reached 93 percent during July, with less than 200 MMcf per day of excess pipeline capacity. Increased flows from the Rockies on TransColorado and Northwest are contributing to downward pressure on San Juan Basin supply, and in general, the San Juan has followed Rocky Mountain prices rather than following prices at Topock or the Permian Basin. Unlike in the past two summers, the bottleneck has not allowed power demand on the West Coast to support San Juan prices relative to Permian prices. The differential between San Juan and Permian has averaged $0.50 per MMBtu so far this month and $0.30 per MMBtu since June. Additional imports from the Rockies into the San Juan have increased supply by 200 MMcf per day relative to last summer, but these higher flows do not fully explain the disconnect. Without much change in Southwestern or Rocky Mountains local demand, the San Juan should continue to price at a wide discount during September. The San Juan-to-Henry Hub differential is expected to average $0.60 per MMBtu. As in the Rockies, differentials should narrow substantially in October. Rocky Mountains Downward pressures on Rocky Mountain prices intensified over the past month as utilization rates on pipelines out of the region continued to climb. Record heat and power generation levels have done little to boost gas demand within the region; generation is still largely coal-based, and the demand impact on gas of the additional load is minimal. CERA expects the heavy discount-current Rocky Mountain-to-Henry Hub differentials are around $0.90 per MMBtu-to persist through September. Local area demand is not expected to change during September. Substantial gain in local demand comes in October with heating loads; October demand should average 1.4 Bcf per day, up from August and September averages of around 1.2 Bcf per day. Although the winter heating season will relieve pipeline pressures in the Rockies, winter differentials are expected to stay in the $0.25 to $0.40 per MMBtu range. Strong storage inventories will limit the connection with broader North American markets this summer. Next summer, pressures on Rockies supplies will likely intensify relative to this summer. Although pipeline expansion projects have been announced-Trailblazer and Williams announced expansion plans this summer-the new capacity will not be online to relieve constraints next summer. CERA expects supplies within the Rocky Mountains to increase by 300 MMcf per day next year. Western Canada After widening to over US$1.50 per MMBtu, the AECO-Henry differential has begun to narrow somewhat; maintenance that has restricted flows has largely been responsible for the jump from $0.84 per MMBtu in July. With current supply able to fill the contracted pipe capacity and incremental volumes having to pay full cost to flow, differentials are likely to persist in the mid-US$0.70s per MMBtu for September. AECO is expected to be US$3.25 per MMBtu (C$4.53 per gigajoule) for September. Even with the start-up of the Alliance project, the contract nonrenewal on TransCanada is likely to continue the two-tiered pricing dynamics of contracted versus uncontracted pipeline costs. This will result in differentials that will range between US$0.60 and US$0.75 per MMBtu throughout the winter. Supply build in western Canada continues to languish behind last year's levels. The pace of drilling (over 9,000 gas wells are expected this year) should provide growth in the fourth quarter and into 2001. Supply is expected to be flat with 1999 on an annual basis for this year and up at least 350 MMcf per day in 2001. Sumas prices have been quite volatile, driven by both weather in the Pacific Northwest and maintenance on the Westcoast system. For September, Sumas is expected to be slightly more stable and to price at a modest premium to AECO of US$0.05 per MMBtu. **end** Follow URL for PDF version of this Monthly Briefing with associated graphic and tables. ********************************************************* CERA's Autumn 2000 Roundtable event dates and agendas are now available at http://www.cera.com/event ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Attached is my version of the next draft of Enron's key Message Points.  I wrote these after watching two focus groups held in Orange County, CA Wednesday and Thursday night. It is important to note that the staff from Luntz Research (Liz VanDersarl) is also re-writing the key Message Points and the Speeches for our review on Monday.  Their version will most likely be different than these. If anyone has any comments on this version, please let me know so I can pass it on to Luntz Research. Thanks. Jim 
FYI. 
Rick, et al -- I don't know if we need to do this study and the work that Seabron and LECG would be doing.  Maybe we incorporate these guys into the mix during the work up of the analysis. I think that we need to make sure that we have the right questions to ask.  I will get with Jeff Dasovich and Joe Hartsoe and Mary Hain to make sure that we (1) have the right questions and (2) have the right parties answering the questions.  Then let's look at our current resources and go outside only if necessary. Jim Richard Shapiro 08/27/2000 11:39 AM 
where are we on this? Jim- How does this square w/ Seabron's work? Is there a way to marry the two? Rob Bradley@ENRON 08/18/2000 05:10 PM 
Robert Michaels is proposing a consultant study looking at the California electricity chaos (see attached).  It is roughly a $100,000 study before printing and distribution costs with a delivery date of December 1.  The study would also involve Ken Malloy's Center for the Advancement of Energy Markets. I think Robert would do a good job but raise these issues: 1) This is expensive.  It is at consultant rates and is not an academic study where a think tank can get the professors to do something at less cost 2) Malloy is pretty heavy into this at a cost of $14,400 of about 40% of Michaels.  His NARUC connections are very important, and we would want him on the popularization side, but this is too much. 3) The study might need a co-author with lots of academic credibility to join Robert as good as he is. I'm glad that we have this proposal--it will force us to think about what we want, who does it, and how it should be distributed.  We should also think about how much industry money we could gather to fund such an effort (it should be large given the stakes). Can you provide your impressions so I can get back to Robert? - Rob Robert Michaels <rmichaels@fullerton.edu> on 08/18/2000 03:34:12 PM Please respond to rmichaels@fullerton.edu 
All -- Here's the memo I said you'd have today, and a preliminary budgeting sheet.  Gimme a call as soon as is reasonably possible. Thanx, RM - 818 Proposal Memo.doc - 818 Malloy California Report (Michaels).xls 
Philip -- I wanted to make sure that the OFFER memo on Feb 98 still was correct for the NordPool. The key issues we are trying to establish are - 1. Governance 1.b Relationship of Transmission Owner to System Operator and Market Operator 2. Mandatory / Voluntary Participation 3. Energy Pool vs. Balancing Pool If the report is still good, we can probably just pull the answers with some help from you. Jim 
Jeff - Can you please keep Schroeder in the loop on all final documents that we would use?  Europe is talking about how crazy Calif is and we need to make sure that they are in the loop. Jim 
yes, send me copies of everything, I can sort out what we can use or should pass on.   thanks  mcs 
Mark -- FYI, we gave the following to the Bush Transition team about what is really happening in California.  If there is anyone on your team (you?) who should be getting copies of the material we generate, let me know so that we can copy. Jim Mark Schroeder@ECT 01/05/2001 07:56 AM 
As we all deal with the fallout from the California scene, I wanted to make sure everyone was aware of the recent report of the UK's National Audit Office (a highly creible organisation, along the lines of the US's General Accounting Office, even similar function; independent, too), saying that household electricity bills had been cut by 750 million pounds (if you are a Yank, multiply by 1.5 for dollars saved), since the industry was opened to competition two years ago.  Of course, much of this may be attributable to the divestment of assets in the oligopolistic generation sector, now competitive, but it is a very fari example of the benefits of competition and should be cited as a counterweight to those arguing that competition is a ""failed experiment"".  Paul Dawson, head of our UK regulatory team, can provide any necessary further insights./details.   mcs 
Attached please find three documents that outlines the economics of LT=20 contracting necessary for PG&E and SCE.  Also find some thoughts on element= s=20 of a workable settlement. Call me with any questions. Jim Scott Stoness 01/11/2001 05:09 PM 
Great idea.  My strategy was solve the immediate problem of solvency quickl= y=20 by getting the government to step in while the rules of the RFP are defined= ,=20 then do the auction, but if you think we could go straight to an RFP for=20 standard offer without going bankrupt, I would be for it. I believe that we do not have time for an RFP (6 months) so that we should= =20 get the government entity to step in to give us the time. And auction by rate class would be good but noone would want the large=20 classes because their rate increase will be higher and they will be less=20 likely to stay. Scott 
What about something different? If we asked for an Auction by rate class that would allow a different compa= ny=20 to market the default service.  The competitive bids would be used to reduc= e=20 the overall undercollection.  So in your ST point #1, replace Government=20 entity with a Competitive ESP that has paid the most to win that right. Jim Scott Stoness@EES 01/11/2001 02:39 PM =20 
Solution Government entity becomes an ESP taking over all customers not served by=20 another ESP. Government accepts any ESP's that come back within 3 weeks Utilities stopped from selling any additional nuclear, hydro, thermal or QF= =20 generation. Utilities provide surcharge/credit, for the lessor of 40 years or retiremen= t,=20 based on the difference between generation COS and market value to all ESPs= ,=20 after rate freeze ends. Government entity, as ESP,  charges Frozen Rate plus 10% until the end of= =20 2002. Government entity, assures all ESP that they will their costs will not exce= ed=20 110% of frozen rate until the end of 2002. Rate freeze and surcharge continue until the end of March 2002. Any shortfall of agency would be recovered through a amortization over the= =20 next 15 years with securitization less positive proceeds from auctioning=20 default provider. Other: Government commit to building 10,000 MW of generation by summer of 2002 Government commit to allowing emmission constrainted generators to buy=20 emission credits Goverment change legislation to allow swift DSM activity 
Here are some thoughts for Enron to share with at the Analyst meeting. Please let me know if you have any additions, changes, or deletions.  What I tried to put down were the key facts and positions.  If I've missed anything let me know.  This is not a great story. Jim OUR PHYSICAL POSITION IN CALIFORNIA EES has electricity customers within the territories of SCE, PG&E, and SDG&E (about 800 MW of usage) [NOTE - CHECK WITH EES].  EES has natural gas customers within the territories PG&E and SoCal Gas. Enron does not have any generation in California (we own a small QF in Nevada but only have 50 MW excess). We supply power to the Utilities and to our retail load by buying excess in California or by transmitting power into the state.  Enron sells natural gas to the LDCs mainly under spot arrangements. Enron continues to manage the risk by using traditional hedging tools and by using the full complement of resources of EES - demand reduction, load shaping, and efficiency improvements. Transwestern has long-term capacity arrangements with PG&E. OUR POLITICAL POSITION IN CALIFORNIA / MESSAGES The current situation (shortages and potential bankruptcy) is not the result of competitive markets, rather it is the result of barriers to workable retail and wholesale markets designed into the California deregulation model (for instance, the overreliance of the Utilities on the spot market, the residual CTC calculation, incomplete retail tariff unbundling requiring direct access customers to pay more than their fair share for the Utilities' common costs). Enron does not want to see the California Utilities go bankrupt because those naysayers of competition will use this situation as an argument against competition.  Enron disagrees.  What it proves is that not finishing the job of creating real competition can result in problems. Enron believes that there are workable short-term and long-term solutions for California. In the short-term, (1) California must provide credit enhancement or directly buy power for the Utilities' needs to ensure a stable supply of electricity, (2) California should incent customers to institute demand reductions, and (3) California should raise rates to cover reasonable costs so that the Utilities do not petition for bankruptcy. In the long-term, (1) California needs to continue its activities to promote retail competition (and most importantly it must allow real price signals to be sent to large customers), (2) California should implement the changes that the FERC highlighted (end the reliance on the spot market, remove stakeholders on the Cal ISO Board, give the Utilties the ability to recover wholesale power costs), (3) California must remove unnecessary barriers to the development of additional generation capacity, and, most importantly, (4) California must establish reasonable structures so that the Utilities develop a balanced portfolio of supplies to better manage electricity market volatility. California should not get into the business of owning or operating generation assets or transmission facilities. California should not stop moving forward with retail competitition which allows customers to manage price risk rather than some regulator. KEY ENRON ISSUES IN CALIFORNIA We do have outstanding deliveries into the California utilities and would be an unsecured creditor if bankruptcy occurs. We continue to sell to creditworthy counterparties in Western Power markets. [NOTE - THE AMOUNT OF RISK IS AN IR ISSUE THEY WANT TO MANAGE]. The PX Credit (and associated negative CTC) continues to be an issue.  Enron believes that the rate freeze has not yet ended legally and PG&E's and SCE's tariff requires the Utilities to pay funds to the customer's agent.  We filed a Complaint Friday January 19 at the CPUC.  We are confident that these funds will be recovered.  [NOTE - I DON'T THINK WE WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THIS - AGAIN AN IR ISSUE BECAUSE OF THE RECEIVABLE] 
1. Enron response to various PG&E gas matters (see Mike Day attachment below) Gas Receivables request of PG&E TURN/ORA Petition Diversion 2. Legislative Update 3. CRA On-Site Generation Language 4. Enron's Reponse to CDWR RFB (see attachment) [Other Parties Comments] 5. Cal PX Security / Collateral Update - Travis McCullough update 6. Bankruptcy News 7. Other Please feel free to send me any updates or additions. Jim 
I would suggest that we spend the first 5 minutes on today's call identifying issues that remain open and/or need additional resources from this week. Also, I continue to add people to the e-mail list.  If someone from any team is missing, please let me know so that I can add them. AGENDA 1. Enron Actions before CPUC (Harry Kingerski) 2. PG&E - SoCal Gas Dispute (Jeff Dasovich) 3. Governor Davis Appointments to ISO Board - Who's in charge? (Sue Mara) 4. Update on SCE US District Court Action vs. CPUC to Immediately Raise Rates (Sue Mara / Travis McCullough) 5. Cal PX Security / Collateral (Travis McCullough) 5. Bankruptcy Update (Michael Tribolet) 6. Legislative Update (Sandi McCubbin, DC Office) 
Here's a new legislative strategy in Sacremento idea based on the attached e-mail   -- 1. Let other's worry about SDG&E fixes.  First, even if the legislature doesn't do anything, the CPUC fix is already in place.  SDG&E doesn't need any statues to ""do the right thing"".  We should just leverage the CPUC. Second, it looks like the Dems and Reps are going to reach conclusion on a SDG&E bill; our language is in the mix.  Let's not be too close in case something blows up. 2. Finish the Williamson Act.  Dave Parquet says that having the fixes now is probably worth $10MM because he can flip the property this year instead of next year (need 4Q00 earnings). 3. Cut a deal with SCE / PG&E / CMA.  The big issue in California is to make money in the place where the market is the biggest.  Also, we need to protect (a) EES' book and (b) ENA's ability to buy and sell in CA without wholesale price caps (this takes no retail rate volatility).    Maybe we could get these parties to agree on some key going forward issues for the market - natural gas restructuring, wholesale market with Flowgate model, deal on key FERC Unresolved Issues, maybe something commercial with PG&E?   The deal is to have the retail rate cap extended, but not the CTC collection, until 12/31/03 with a CPUC opener to 12/31/04.  Not sure if this sales or if they'll let us in the tent, but would be interesting to discuss with Sandi. From what I can tell we seem to be preventing this bill.  Let' remember that this is just going to be an issue next Summer and so why not deal with it now. Please let me know your feedback. Jim 
FYI.  According to Roger, if the freeze is extended out toward 2004 for PG&E and Edison, his book makes BIG money. 
Here is the draft.  Comments please.  Due today at 5pm. Jim 
Mr. Joe Kelliher Advisor to the Secretary US Department of Energy Joe - Attached please find our thoughts on California solutions. In the short-term, California must provide support to the Utilities to maintain reliablity (as they are doing with CDWR purchases).  In the longer-term, California must increase supply and reduce demand, as well as bring retail rates in line with the cost of a reasonable portfolio of electricity supply. Hope this helps.  If you need anything, please feel free to call me at 713-853-7673 (work) or 713-851-2499 (cell) Jim Steffes 
Paul, Joe, & Harry -- We've all talked about holding a meeting to outline our strategy for the next 12 months in the Western states (wholesale and retail) and so I propose the following. 1. GA Strategy Meeting We should come together as just GA before meeting with the business people. I think that we want to have the following people in attendance (like your input) - Paul Kaufman, Joe Hartsoe, Sarah Novosel, Mary Hain, Marcie Milner, Steve Walton, Jim Steffes, Harry Kingerski, Sue Mara, Jeff Dasovich, Bruno Gaillard, Mona Petrochko, Sandi McCubbin. The meeting output would be a Strategy and Tactics Plan for June 2000 - June 2001. 2. GA meeting w/ Business People A few of us could go to Belden, Calger, Yang, Benevides, Condon to discuss the above. I would like to have these meetings soon (maybe Thursday, Sept 7 for #1). Please let me know. 
Attached is some spending to date by the CDWR.  This information comes from a legislative member so we should NOT release it publicly. Jim DWR Power Acquisition for CAISO Date	MWH	Total	Average $/MWH 12/5/00	8,000	$5,600,000	$700 12/6/00	15,000	$15,000,000	$1,000 1/11/01	12,421	$4,681,445	$377 1/12/01	9,445	$2,920,375	$309 1/13/01	1,065	$274,000	$257 1/14/01	1,717	$433,025	$252 1/15/01	5,825	$1,633,500	$280 1/16/01	2,221	$1,191,800	$537 1/17/01	15,190	$8,698,000	$573 1/18/01	26,056	$11,665,596	$448 1/19/01	54,580	$19,699,725	$361 1/20/01	85,296	$21,257,175	$249 1/21/01	79,000	$20,483,249	$259 1/22/01	129,085	$42,816,753	$332 1/23/01	140,160	$50,001,577	$357 1/24/01	129,160	$42,578,997	$330 
Agenda for today -- 1. Sacramento Update AB18X - Next Steps EES Legislative Language on Past PX Credit non-payment (support?) 2. CPUC Update SDG&E Filing 3. Cal PX Letter to FERC (1-25-01) - Mary Hain 4. Bankruptcy News? 5. Other 
Here is the document. 
Additional Talking Points 1. Grace Period for Direct Access Customers should be given at least the next 6 months to contract away from the Utilities w/o any penalty. 2. Fees must Promote Direct Access Any fees that are charged to switching customers should be of a fixed nature (reset annually) and have a long-term amortization (10 years). 3. CDWR needs to have incentives to minimize cost and should have some Risk / At a minimum, need Sunset language Without the right incentives, CDWR may not make the right decisions.  Need to push this into the market as quickly as possible. LANGUAGE CHANGE -- As much as possible, remove the "", including the payment of fees or surcharges, "" language in the middle as it seems to be covered by the last 
I wonder if there is a way to determine from the studies when the rate free= ze=20 ended.  My logical is that at some point there was a crossover and maybe fr= om=20 the cash flows we would be able to determine the outcome.  What does everyo= ne=20 think? Jim 
On Friday, the Commission issued the attached Assigned Commissioner's  Ruli= ng=20 in the rate surcharge proceedings which does the following: ? 1.? It identifies the issues for Phase 1 as being: ? (a) Reviewing the independent audit results of PG&E and SCE, ordered in =20 D.00-12-067 and, as part of that analysis, determining whether or not there= =20 is a  financial necessity for other or additional relief for the utilities.= ? =20 Included here is a recognition that the utilities may make other interim = =20 proposals and this would be included within the scope of the first phase;  = and ? (b) TURN=01,s accounting proposal for the proper reconciliation of the =20 Transition Revenue Account (TRA) and Transition Cost Balancing Account=20 (TCBA)  accounts and the Generation Memorandum Accounts (GMA). ? 2.? The retention of utility generating assets and the interim  ratemaking= =20 treatment for these assets is being separately handled and hearings  will n= ot=20 occur on this issue in Phase 1.? Parties may file testimony on  interim=20 valuation in addressing whether the rate freeze has ended on a  prospective= =20 basis. 3.?? The Commission will consider whether the rate freeze has  ended only o= n=20 a prospective basis in Phase I. 4.?? The Commission will address the reasonable and prudent  cost issue in = a=20 later phase of this proceeding. 5.?? The  Commission will also consider parties=01, proposals for tiered ra= tes=20 similar to  those discussed by Senator Bowen in the December public hearing= s. ? 6.?? PG&E and?Edison are required to?notify the  Commission and all parties= =20 by January 30, 2001 of the specific portions of their  testimony that are= =20 within the scope of this phase. 7. The hearing schedule adopted is:?=20 February 5,  2001?????????????  Intervenor testimony served February 9,  2001?????????????  Rebuttal testimony served February 15 =01)21, 2001?????  Hearings February 23,  2001??????????? Closing  Argument February 27,  2001??????????? Briefs,  not to exceed 15 pages March 23,  2001????????????????Proposed  Decision March 26,  2001????????????????Final  Oral Argument March 27,  2001????????????????Anticipated  Final Commission Decision ? Please let me know if anyone feels WPTF should be involved in this phase of= =20 the proceeding. ? Dan ? - CPUC01-#88123-v1-A0011038_ET_AL_Lynch_Walwyn_Ruling__.doc 
Number: 1-800-998-2462 passcode 4912753 AGENDA 1. SDG&E Rate Surcharge - Enron Actions 2. Sacramento Update Rate Freeze End Date 
I wanted to follow-up with everyone following yesterday's meeting. It appears to me that we need to develop (1) a better analysis of the four market models - AGL (Steve M), Columbia of Ohio (Janine), Socal Gas (Jeff), NICOR (Roy) - based on some key elements and (2) the key Influence parties in Illinois with 5 layer Influence Circles that we need to be thinking about in this discussion. It would be great if we could get this to Laura for distribution by end of day Friday (realize it's tight). Key elements for Market Models -- 1. Direct Access Allowed?  For What customers?  What timeline? 2. Upstream Capacity resolution - assignment or otherwise?  Are there assets left to optimize 3. Retail pricing - Fixed price vs. PBR (how?) vs. something else? 4. Role of Wholesale Outsourcing Agent (would ENA sell to marketers or utilities or both?) 5. Other Issues Thanks, 
Jeff - Were you ever able to pull together the info from the West Gas desk about total gas flows and the overall state ""balance""?  Just curious. Jim 
Mary informs me that the Cal ISO has filed (1-30-01) with FERC that it will not be filing a new Congestion Management proposal at FERC as required in previous Orders. She thinks now is an opportune time to challenge the legitimacy of the new Cal ISO Board (Gov Davis' actions).   I also think that we need to put forward our own solution (if we have one). I would appreciate everyone's opinion as to the (a) likelihood that FERC would finally address the matter, (b) end result if FERC does deal with the issue, (c) and the politics in Sacramento / CPUC of taking this position. Also, who else is going to weigh in on our proposal? Jim 
Mary informs me that the Cal ISO has filed (1-30-01) with FERC that it will not be filing a new Congestion Management proposal at FERC as required in previous Orders. She thinks now is an opportune time to challenge the legitimacy of the new Cal ISO Board (Gov Davis' actions).   I also think that we need to put forward our own solution (if we have one). I would appreciate everyone's opinion as to the (a) likelihood that FERC would finally address the matter, (b) end result if FERC does deal with the issue, (c) and the politics in Sacramento / CPUC of taking this position. Also, who else is going to weigh in on our proposal? Jim 
I wanted to follow-up with everyone following yesterday's meeting. It appears to me that we need to develop (1) a better analysis of the four market models - AGL (Steve M), Columbia of Ohio (Janine), Socal Gas (Jeff), NICOR (Roy) - based on some key elements and (2) the key Influence parties in Illinois with 5 layer Influence Circles that we need to be thinking about in this discussion. It would be great if we could get this to Laura for distribution by end of day Friday (realize it's tight). Key elements for Market Models -- 1. Direct Access Allowed?  For What customers?  What timeline? 2. Upstream Capacity resolution - assignment or otherwise?  Are there assets left to optimize 3. Retail pricing - Fixed price vs. PBR (how?) vs. something else? 4. Role of Wholesale Outsourcing Agent (would ENA sell to marketers or utilities or both?) 5. Other Issues Thanks, Jim 
I wanted to follow-up with everyone following yesterday's meeting. It appears to me that we need to develop (1) a better analysis of the four market models - AGL (Steve M), Columbia of Ohio (Janine), Socal Gas (Jeff), NICOR (Roy) - based on some key elements and (2) the key Influence parties in Illinois with 5 layer Influence Circles that we need to be thinking about in this discussion. It would be great if we could get this to Laura for distribution by end of day Friday (realize it's tight). Key elements for Market Models -- 1. Direct Access Allowed?  For What customers?  What timeline? 2. Upstream Capacity resolution - assignment or otherwise?  Are there assets left to optimize 3. Retail pricing - Fixed price vs. PBR (how?) vs. something else? 4. Role of Wholesale Outsourcing Agent (would ENA sell to marketers or utilities or both?) 5. Other Issues Thanks, Jim 
Federal Govt Role 
FYI.   Commentary that calls George W. Bush to task for not getting more competition into the electricity markets. Jim 
PennFuture's E-cubed is a commentary biweekly email publication  concerning the current themes and trends in the energy market. February 5, 2001 Vol. 3, No. 3 Breaking Out of the  Box Two weeks after his inauguration, President Bush's  electricity policy is already emerging from the crucible of California and is  characterized by obedience to free market ideology and a federalism that  confines the federal government to a limited, backseat role. We are  told that California's crisis is an isolated event, the result  of California's unique mistakes. In this view, the federal government  neither contributed to the crisis nor has a major role to play in solving it. Wholesale market caps at any level are declared to be an inappropriate  intrusion into free markets that can only make things worse. Moreover, the  appointment of Curt Hebert as the new Chairman of the Federal Energy  Regulatory Commission (FERC) signals that FERC will not assert itself to  ensure that wholesale electricity markets are genuinely competitive and that  the principles of open access and comparability are more than legal fictions.  Finally, environmental regulation is fingered as a primary obstacle to  adequate supplies and reasonable prices. This emerging policy begins with  a misdiagnosis. In fact, the mess in California and the West has roots in  huge policy mistakes made by both the state and federal governments. One such  federal mistake was a 1995 FERC decision that blocked a competitive  solicitation for 1400 megawatts of new generation in California. Skyrocketing  retail electric prices in more and more states due to wholesale market  failure will soon make clear to all that the nation's electricity problems  start in Washington DC with failed wholesale market policies. The hot seat  will then shift from Governor Gray Davis to federal officials and it will  become apparent that strict obedience to free market ideology or a limited  role for federal authority will not?cure?past mistakes in electric  policy. President Bush inherits an America where wholesale electricity  markets are isolated and dysfunctional - ticking time bombs planted beneath  his Presidency. The fuses on these bombs were lit with the passage of the  Energy Policy Act (EPACT) in 1992, which deregulated the price of generation  in the wholesale electric market but left FERC with the job of creating a  genuinely competitive wholesale market which would restrain prices through  competitive pressures. But neither FERC nor Congress has ensured the free  movement of electricity in interstate commerce or workably competitive  markets since the passage of EPACT. Market power abuses are rife, and most  parts of the country don't even have the benefit of an independent system  operator to ensure nondiscrimination and open access to the transmission  grids. Even so, FERC will not compel formation of or utility membership in  independent system operators. Worse yet, in the face of opposition from  states and several powerful utilities, Congress has fiddled its thumbs on  national restructuring legislation for five years and has not required a  transition to retail competition in every state. By failing to open retail  markets, Congress has ensured that wholesale electricity markets cannot be  effectively disciplined by demand changes or long-term retail contracts.  Meanwhile, states behave as if they are electric islands immune from the  results of failed federal stewardship of wholesale markets. Foolishly, they have become a principal stumbling block to optimally sized regional  power markets and encourage FERC timidity by banging the drums of states'  rights on Capitol Hill. To this day, with 58,000 megawatts under its  control, PJM is the largest wholesale market or free-trade zone for  electricity in the country and it amounts to no more than 6 percent of the  nation's electric industry. The remaining 94 percent of the industry are  divided into hundreds of wholesale markets with unique rules for pricing and  operation. So nine years after EPACT, the bombs have begun to go off,  first in California, where disastrous state policies mixed with federal  mistakes have created a spectacular explosion, then in Washington and Idaho,  two states that have not passed retail restructuring laws, where retail rates  are going up as much as 84 percent and 29 percent respectively. And it's only  a matter of time before these electricity time bombs explode in other  states. The reality is that both the federal government's actions and  inaction have made problems worse in California and elsewhere. Denying that  fact thwarts any efforts to fix the problem, as does attacking environmental  protection or endlessly repeating free market and states' rights  ideology. Hopefully it's not heresy but it must be said:  Strong federal action and wise intervention are required if  wholesale markets are to be stabilized and  made competitive. First, the federal government must  organize the country into 10 or 12 regional wholesale electric markets, each  administered by an Independent System Operator that has the legal duty and  necessary authority to ensure that each market is reliable and genuinely  competitive. Each ISO must have clear responsibility to identify and prevent  market power abuses in order to protect public confidence in electricity  markets and prevent more autopsies like that now being done on California's  effort to deregulate. Second, and absolutely crucial for the formation of  competitive electricity markets, the federal government should require that  every state equip its retail customers with time-of-use metering and  appliance control devices (thermostat resetting and others) which increase  the price elasticity of demand. Third, electric markets cannot be  competitive if either the wholesale or retail market remain closed. All  customers should be allowed to choose electricity suppliers by a certain,  specific date. Fourth, fuel diversity and clean energy have a clear value  in these markets - federal restructuring legislation should promote fuel  diversity as well as address a host of major environmental problems by  establishing reasonable renewable energy requirements. Fifth, the  federal government must face up to the fact that in periods of peak demand or  system emergency conditions, suppliers currently have almost total pricing  power and that high wholesale price caps are an immediate necessity. At such  times, the price curve looks like a ""J,"" with prices unlimited by demand changes climbing straight up. The three wholesale markets that are administered by viable independent system operators - PJM, New York, and New  England - all operate with a $1,000 per megawatt-hour price cap. They use  caps not because they aren't committed to making competition work, but  because demand is not currently responsive to price and because these  emerging markets are vulnerable to strategic bidding that could destroy  public support for more competition. The sternest test of leadership for  a modern politician is to face down his friends and the greatest act of  friendship is to save a friend from himself. The President could lessen the  need for caps by telling some of his friends in the energy industry that they  are behaving like a Marxist caricature of businessmen who only need to be  given enough rope in order to hang themselves. Some wholesale energy  suppliers - by persisting in wholesale markets that cannot limit prices by  competition or demand response to charge $1,000, $2,000, $3,000 or more per  megawatt-hour, prices that greatly exceed any cost or profit requirement -  have triggered a public reaction that could eventually crush them. For  example, in California, the recently passed emergency state  statute ""suspends"" retail direct access and many communities are  understandably beginning the process of forming municipal  utilities. The President must remind wholesale energy suppliers of the  need for restraint while America's dysfunctional wholesale electricity  markets are repaired. Americans deserve true, functional, clean and  affordable competitive electric markets. Because energy bills often consume  at least 10 percent of an average family's income, and up to 50 percent of a  poor household's take-home pay, most Americans have little tolerance for high  energy costs. And, as Jimmy Carter discovered, the families that carry lunch  buckets hold the people in government responsible for energy shortages and  price spikes. President Bush himself seems to sense that energy threatens  his Presidency - electricity alone could be its downfall. Perhaps his talent  for political survival will yet cause the President to change course on  electric policy and break out of the confined ideological box which he  appears on the verge of entering. The fate of his presidency, and our  energy future, may hang in the balance. E-cubed is available for reprint in newspapers and other publications. Authors are available for print or broadcast. Support E-cubed by becoming a  member of PennFuture - visit our secure online membership page at www.pennfuture.org by 
Mary informs me that the Cal ISO has filed (1-30-01) with FERC that it will not be filing a new Congestion Management proposal at FERC as required in previous Orders. She thinks now is an opportune time to challenge the legitimacy of the new Cal ISO Board (Gov Davis' actions).   I also think that we need to put forward our own solution (if we have one). I would appreciate everyone's opinion as to the (a) likelihood that FERC would finally address the matter, (b) end result if FERC does deal with the issue, (c) and the politics in Sacramento / CPUC of taking this position. Also, who else is going to weigh in on our proposal? Jim 
In the attached article, there is reference to the state taking control of some Utility transmission asset as a quid pro quo for bailing out the Utilities  (Senate President Pro Tem John Burton (D-San Francisco), who argues that California should take control of the transmission grid).  While our understanding of the current politics is that many politicians don't want that trade, it is not out of the question. Having the state take over transmission would make all transmission non-jurisdictional to FERC within California. Given that the State really wants ""something"", does anyone have any ideas as to what these companies may have as a viable trade?   One thought - I remember reading that PG&E NEG had taken out an option on 20,000 MW of turbines last year.  Maybe the state could require PG&E NEG to sell (implicit deal) these turbines at cost to anyone siting in CA? I'd appreciate any other thoughts that people have.  Not sure where this issue goes over time, but we need to help the politicians come up with a better answer than the transmission plant. Jim 
Long article...Mentions Calpine offering 1000 MW at slightly higher than 5.5 cents/kwh. 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001 |  </cgi-bin/print.cgi> Print this story </cgi-bin/print.cgi> Davis Vows Plan for Edison, PG&E The governor says that by the end of the week he will have a strategy to help the utilities avoid bankruptcy. By DAN MORAIN and NANCY RIVERA BROOKS, Times Staff Writers SACRAMENTO--Gov. Gray Davis said Monday he and legislative leaders would have a plan by week's end to avert the bankruptcy of the state's two biggest utilities by trading ratepayer-backed bond money for utility assets. ""The drop-dead date is clearly Feb. 12,"" Davis said. That is when a federal judge is set to hear a lawsuit by Southern California Edison, joined by Pacific Gas & Electric, that could lead to sharp rate hikes for consumers unless a rescue plan is in place. Momentum has been building for a plan in which the state would get control of the utility transmission lines in return for issuing bonds to give the utilities a cash infusion. But Senate President Pro Tem John Burton (D-San Francisco), who argues that California should take control of the transmission grid, said he did not share Davis' urgency to cut a deal this week. The wrangling comes as the state faces the end early Wednesday of what likely is the last federal emergency order requiring that independent power generators sell electricity in California. The Bush administration insists it will not extend the order. ""We're not even asking,"" Davis spokesman Steven Maviglio said. Several such orders issued in the past two months have forced power generators to keep electricity flowing to California, even though Edison and PG&E were unable to pay the skyrocketing wholesale costs of electricity. But the federal emergency orders are less vital now that California has relieved the utilities of having to buy power--at a cost to taxpayers of roughly $45 million a day. Davis, meanwhile, plans to announce today that California has entered into its first long-term contracts to buy power from independent generators, thereby beginning its shift away from the reliance on spot markets. At least one firm, Calpine Corp., was on the verge late Monday of signing a deal to provide the state with up to 1,000 megawatts for roughly 10 years. One megawatt is enough to serve roughly 1,000 homes. The cost could not be determined, but it is believed to be slightly above the 5.5 cents per kilowatt-hour that Davis had hoped for. ""Clearly, we are no longer waiting for someone else to solve our problem or do something to bail us out,"" Davis said at a Capitol news conference Monday. ""We are doing everything within our power as a state to right this ship. We're not waiting for someone to throw us a long pass. We're going to solve 
WorkProduct 
Ron - If you have any conclusions on this, please get to Jeff Dasovich.  He is calling Mike Peevey to try and get CDWR to take over the contracts fully (including our LCs). Jim ""Ronald Carroll"" <rcarroll@bracepatt.com> 02/07/2001 03:54 PM 
Attorney Work Product  (Document link: Mary Hain) I think it may also be significant that the governor exercised his authority over contracts, as opposed to real property.  Who ever heard of 
Work Product Although I don't yet have all the facts, Steve Hall said that late yesterday (Friday) afternoon, the Governor exercised eminent domain over the IOU forward contracts that the PX had been in the process of auctioning to pay PX participants.  I would like Bracewell to research at least the following two possible ways this action is unlawful.  First, this violates the banking provisions of the PX tariff (Section 6).  These provisions requires the PX to hold all PX accounts in trust for PX participants. Second, these are wholesale contracts and the State only has the right to exercise eminent domain concerning retail service.  I don't have any law to support the second idea but think it should be researched nonetheless. 
FYI. Jim 
FYI: Low initial success rate. 
FYI -- Five of PGE's 25 suppliers agreed to execute the PG&E's proposed security agreement, including two Dynegy entities.  Two entities (a Goldman, Sachs affiliate and Western Gas Resources) shut off gas supplies immediately upon termination of the DOE order.  PGE indicated a need to continue to negotiating with other suppliers for additional gas suppliers, so they may come around. Travis McCullough Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street EB 3817 Houston Texas 77002 Phone:  (713) 853-1575 Fax: (713) 646-3490 
Rick, thought you might enjoy this alternative theory on the root cause of Cal's problem.  Ray 
Feb. 2, 2001, 8:06PM The rest of us should tell California to go fly a kite By DAVE BARRY When we consider the serious electricity shortage in California, our reaction, as concerned Americans, is: Ha ha! No, seriously, we are alarmed. Because history teaches us that whatever happens to California -- smog, road rage, tofu, coffee that is mainly air, cell  phones, the belief that abdominal muscles are attractive, Shirley MacLaine,  people taking in-line skating seriously, grandmothers sporting new and  flagrantly inappropriate bosoms -- eventually happens to the rest of the nation.  Thus it is vital that we analyze the California electricity shortage and see if  we can develop a workable solution before we become bored and change the  subject. Our first question is: What, exactly, is electricity? When we look in our Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, we see that ""electricity"" is defined  as a ""class of physical phenomena resulting from the existence of charge  and from the interaction of charges."" What does this mean, in lay-person's  terms? It means that whoever wrote the Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia is a big, fat dope. Because we know from our junior-high-school science training that electricity is actually a fast-moving herd of electrons, which are tiny one-celled animals that can survive in almost any environment except inside a  double-A battery, where they die within minutes. Electrons are formed when clouds rub together and become excited. This was proved in the famous experiment wherein Benjamin Franklin flew a kite during a  thunderstorm and was almost killed. Encouraged by this success, Franklin went on  to conduct many more electrical experiments, including rolling a hoop in a  thunderstorm, playing hopscotch in a thunderstorm and doing somersaults in a  thunderstorm. Finally one night he was caught wearing only a bonnet and playing Mister Pooter Rides the Pony in a thunderstorm, leaving the authorities with no choice  but to arrest him and make him ambassador to France.  Nevertheless, Franklin had proved an important scientific point, which is  that electricity originates inside clouds. There it forms into lightning, which  is attracted to the earth by golfers. After entering the ground, the electricity hardens into coal, which, when 
I am trying to put some figures together for Dave Delainey First, does anyone know how many MW of capacity that would be available for CA this Summer if there were limited or no restrictions on environmental permits.  I understand (via Mary Schoen) that the regional air quality districts have either expanded the hours (200 to 500) for small units.  Does anyone have a good number on how many MW this allows to operate into the market? Also, does anyone know anything about any power plants idled (for whatever reason) recently that could be re-started? 
Attached is the Order placing a TRO against the Cal PX related to our collateral and the chargebacks.  Testimony before the Judge is scheduled on Thursday, Feb 15. Jim 
Received: from mcafee.bracepatt.com by bracepatt.com; Fri, 09 Feb 2001 19:44:07 -0600 Received: FROM mail.qeuo.com BY mcafee.bracepatt.com ; Fri Feb 09 19:51:51 2001 -0600 X-Proxy: keymaster.bracepatt.com protected Received: from LADOMAIN-Message_Server by mail.qeuo.com with Novell_GroupWise; Fri, 09 Feb 2001 17:39:25 -0800 Message-Id: <sa842b4d.032@mail.qeuo.com> X-Mailer: Novell GroupWise 5.5.4 
Has the CPUC put forward and timetable to act?  I would assume that this Commission would be ready to cut off DA as soon as possible. Jim Harry Kingerski 02/09/2001 05:31 PM 
when will the PUC make effective the restriction on Direct Access called for in AB1x? expected date (50/50) early date (25/75) late date (75/25) EES is using this informed opinion to value risk exposure to new deals in San Diego being rescinded. My answers: April 15 Mar 1 May 30 
Executive Orders 
Attached is Mary Schoen's analysis of Gov. Davis' Executive Order on expediting siting and maximizing output. I have asked Mary to try and identify the # of MWs that may be impacted by these actions. Jim 
Executive Orders Below is a brief summary of the five Executive Orders issued by Governor Davis on 2/9/01. For those of you that want the Cliff Notes Version: These Orders appear to be an attempt to accomplish three things: 1.  Expedite Siting for New Powerplants and Expansions or Modifications of Existing Powerplants 2.  Maximize Output and Minimize Outages at Existing Facilities 3.  Centralize Authority and/or Mitigate Issues Impacting Powerplant Siting and Construction The tone is both one of we feel your pain in the complexity of permitting powerplants; and that we will tolerate no excuses for not running at full capacity.  (ie; the carrot and the stick) They also includes some targeted incentives to encourage powerplant operators to sell their power under contract to the State Dept. of Water. Some of the critical issues impacting the effectiveness of these orders will be: - How much capacity is truly ""idling"" and will be able to be brought back on line or increase its output? - Will the state be able to better manage air quality issues and create flexibility within the framework allowed by the Clean Air Act in order to positively change the air quality issues impacting power plant construction and operation? - How quickly can the accelerated permitting procedures be implemented and how soon will we see movements in the market to increase new generation given the other issues in CA? We will continue to analyze the impacts of these orders, but wanted to get information to you in a timely manner. D-22-01  Increased Output/Expedited Siting Mandates CEC exemption from siting requirements for increased output by existing power generators. - limited to less than 50MWs using existing installed capacity b/w 06/01-10/01/01 Expedited processing of applications for certification of existing thermal powerplants that require retooling and a current license to operate. Accelerated review from all agencies involved in the licensing of proposed thermal powerplants. Action by the State Water Resources Control Board  to insure wastewater issues do not preclude thermal powerplants from operating. Requirements for the State Dept. of Water Resources to purchase power from powerplants using renewables and other resources that may currently have not other market for their power. Expires  12/31/01 unless extended Analysis: This Order is intended to take away the excuses for why some powerplants are currently not operating or not operating at full capacity.  It does not waive air quality requirements (they are addressed in a separate order). D-23-01  Appropriate Maintenance and Efficient Operation Requirements ISO Requirements: - Require generators to submit planned outage schedules to the ISO - Prepare a coordinated outage plan to be updated quarterly - Identify generation maintenance criteria to be met by generation facilities - Maintain records of any unplanned generation facility outages and provide those records to Electricity Oversight Board - Conduct independent audits of generation facilities that have fallen below performance benchmarks est. by the ISO - Consider seeking the authority under state law of federal regulation to impose fines on those generation facility owners whose generation facilities have fallen     below performance benchmarks est. by the ISO Requires that the Electricity Oversight Board review the ISO Tariffs and Protocols to identify any necessary revisions to increase the ISO's ability to ensure adequate power during peak demand. Instructs the CPUC to ensure that generation facilities still owned by utilities are operated as required to maintain reliability. Requires the Electricity Oversight Board to propose legislation to expand its authority to issue audits of generation facilities that do not meet est. benchmarks for availability and performance, and issue fines against those plants, after a hearing. Analysis: Again, the tone of this order is that the state won't tolerate outages as an excuse for not generating.  It is also an attempt to better manage planned outages to prevent situations that happened last fall when too many plants where off-line for maintenance at the same time. D-24-01  Air Pollution Flexibility and Mitigation Measures Mandates that local air districts modify emissions limits that limit hours of operation in air quality permits to ensure that power generation facilities that provide power under contract to the Dept. of Water Resources are not restricted in their ability to operate. - Requires air districts to require a mitigation fee for all applicable emissions in excess of the previous limits - If air districts do not comply, the Board (CARB?) shall impose modifications on the permits in lieu of districts The Board shall establish an emissions reduction credit bank using emissions reductions from all available sources: - Credits will be made available to powerplant peaking sources that need emissions offsets in order to add new or expand peaking capacity for the Summer Peak Season in 2001 - In the case of powerplants that agree to sell their power under contract to the Dept. of Water Resources, CA will make available where necessary and available the required emissions credits at up to a 50 percent reduction, - In order to maximize the amount of electrical generating capacity, emissions reduction credits for new generation capacity shall be provided to facilities where necessary and available. - Proceeds from the sales of these emission reduction credits shall be made available to fund emissions reduction programs in the air district where the new or expanded facility is located. Expires 12/31/2001 unless extended Analysis: This order requires the air districts to modify permit limits on run hours for air quality reasons by allowing those powerplants that sell to the Dept. of Water to pay a mitigation fee and creates an emission reduction credit bank available for use by other sources.  There are a lot of details that remain to be clarified, including how the state is going to locate emissions reduction credits where developers were unsuccessful.  However, it is a step in the right direction by creating flexibility and beginning to drive authority back to the state level. D-25-01  Acceleration the Construction and Upgrading of Approved Powerplants Expedites review and approval of post-certification amendments to increase output from thermal powerplants by the Energy Commission. Authorizes the Energy Commission to suspends the requirements of the statutes and regulations that normally control post-certifications to the extent that they impact prompt mitigation of this emergency. Requires the Energy Commission to establish milestones for both initiation of construction within one year of certification, and for the construction phase of the project.  Failure to meet milestones without prior approval by Energy Commission based on a showing of good cause shall constitute forfeiture of the certification. Expires 12/31/01 unless extended Analysis Again, no excuses for not getting your powerplant modifications approved and completed in a timely manner. D-26-01  Accelerating the Availability of New Generation Sources Requires all relevant agencies shorten the review periods to 7 days for required environmental impact documents prepared under CEQA for all powerplants that are not subject to the Energy Commission (under 50MWs) and that are proposed to be on line by summer 2001. Energy Commission shall expedite its licensing process in the following ways: - Expedite processing of applications for peaking or renewable powerplants for construction and operation by July 31, 2001. -Peaking or renewable powerplants that have a current contract with the ISO and can be online by July 2001 may also apply to be permitted by the Energy Commission under the emergency siting process. -Rules which provide a license for a simple cycle thermal powerplant within four months, shall apply to any proposed simple-cycle thermal powerplant that can be brought on line by August 31, 2002  and that have an application for certification complete by Dec. 31. 2001. -Under regulations for the expedited licensing of powerplants, emission offset credits are not required at the time of filing an application for certification -The Energy Commission shall conduct a study of potential peaking power sites in the state and prepare a report by 02/21/01  identifying those areas of the state that would benefit from the installation of peaking powerplants to augment supplies and ensure reliability through the summer of 2003. IOUs must complete necessary interconnection studies within 7 days of receipt of completed application. Expires 12/31/01 unless extended. Analysis: This is an attempt to accelerate the permitting of smaller sources and 
Tom Hoatson, et al - What would PJM say in response?  What is their current thinking?  Also, given that the FTR process may leave some FTRs ""unfunded"", this would seem to move people away from cash flow devices?  How would PJM need to change so this doesn't happen? Jim Steve Walton@ECT 02/09/2001 09:30 AM 
Jim, The PJM rules give monthly overcollection of congestion charges to those who pay the access fees (mostly the incumbent utilities) but simply short the FTR holder if there is an undercollection of congestion charges.  In addition all the auction revenues go to reduce access fees.  As a result, an FTR holder is at risk in any month when they congestion charge collections are smaller than payments due FTRs.  The accounting is done on an hourly basis with any excess credited at the end of the month.  I have attached the PJM FTR manual.  The details of the settlement procedure are covered in Section 5. This procedure benefits the incumbents, since their transmission cost is reduced by both auction revenues and monthly excess collections but never at risk for undercollection.  You have a gate that lets in benefits but keeps out risk.  In New York, for all its other flaws, the under/over collection reconciliation works in both directions.  This is fairer, but there could still be an annual shortfall.  Contrary to advertisement, the simultaneous feasibility test used in the FTR auction does not guarantee the ability to fund the FTRs issued. To address this potential annual shortfall, we proposed for the e-trans tariff, that the auction revenues be held in escrow between auctions.  If over the year, there was a net shortfall, it should be taken from the auction revenues before the credit is made to reduce the access fees.  This means that the buyers get what they paid for.  The payers of the access fees still get credit for the net gain (auction revenues + monthly collections - FTR payments), without shorting buyers of FTRs. Steve James D Steffes@ENRON 02/09/2001 08:04 AM 
Isn't the problem that PJM is only obligated to pay for these ""negative"" FTRs as much as there is congestion revenues?  What section of the PJM Manuals is involved. Jim 
EPMI bought some FTRs in PJM.  PJM did not pay EPMI appr. $105,000 in Sept and $194,000 in Oct.  PJM told Rebecca Grace at Enron that PJM is revenue deficient and, therefore, not required to pay. In Dec., EPMI was negative $177,000 and they charged us $191,000. Apparently, PJM charged us all the negatives, but did not pay us some of our positives because of the revenue deficiency issue. Tom--Do you know what the rules are about this?  It seems unfair that we can be charges all the negatives, but not get our money on the upside.  Let me know and you or I can call Andy Ott about this.  (Tom Dutta is the commercial trader on this for EPMI.) 
1. Legislative Update - What is Enron's message on 6x and 33x? 2. Gov Davis Statement on Direct Access - Sue Mara 3. Cal PX Chargeback Settlement Discussions - Any News? 4. SDG&E Surcharge Update 
My comments on the fax -- Sec 1 is horrific in that it tells new generation that they must offer their energy to the DWR at ""just and reasonable cost base price"".   First, this sends the wrong signal to developers.  Second, I have no idea what a J&R cost based ""price"" is?  Who determines this?  Finally, Sec 2 would require that all generation in the state has to provide a maintenance schedule to the PUC - why?  What happens if an unplanned outage occurs? This is a bad device that does nothing to 'increase supply or decrease demand'. 
As a reminder, the daily call on California has ended. We will now have a single weekly call on Monday at 10:30 am Houston time. Updates will be provided through e-mail as required. 
We all have e-mail lists that include some people but not others.  We need one master list to make sure that w/o the daily calls the information is getting to the right people. Marcia, could you please work to build one list that we can all copy? 
For those that have not seen this analysis, attached please find a note from Mary Schoen detailing the serious physical shortage problems that may occur this Summer in CA. Jim 
Attached is a memo comparing the CEC's forecasted supply and a more realistic look at what additional resources might be available this summer. The bottom line is that: 1.  The CEC significantly underestimates the outages that may occur this summer.  They estimate in their 5,000 MW supply deficit for the summer that expected outages will be around 3,000MW.  However, November and December saw significantly higher outage levels.  (7,265 MWs) The FERC has investigated these outages and found no improprieties- just that the plants are overtaxed from running at higher than normal capacities. 2.  There are a lot of uncertainties surrounding the 1,244 MWs of projected supply from rerating/restarting existing thermal and renewable projects.  It is very unclear how much of this will be able to come on line by this summer, if at all.  As evidenced by the e-mail I sent out this morning, local communities may be very opposed to restarting shut down units.  In addition, these units are likely to be uneconomical. 3.  In the existing resource pool, there are roughly 1,430 MWs of peaking or other generation units that are running up against their operating hour limitations from air quality regulations.  The Governor has ordered the local air quality districts to address these restrictions,  We are beginning to seem some movement; however, the US EPA has yet to weigh in on these relaxed standards. 4.  The distributed generation/back-up generation capacity to make up some of the shortfall is still an unknown.  While there has been some relaxing of the limitations on run hours for back-up generation at ""essential public services"" the increase in DG is expected from ""clean"" sources, not diesel emergency generators. 5.  The CEC is doing everything it can to get 50+ MW peaking units on-line by this summer.  They are promising a 21-day permit application approval process and are offering to pay half of the cost of offsets, for ""clean"" sources of generation in critical areas. Please let me know if you have any questions or need additional information. CEC's Summer Forecasted Peak Demand - Resource Balance: List of Peakers running into their operating hour limitations: Also available in hard copy format only: (please e-mail me your fax number if you'd like a copy) Table 1:  Fully Executed CA ISO Summer Reliability Agreements (the ISO Peaking Facilities) Table 2:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Renewables Construction Status Summary Table 3:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Rerate of Non-CEC Projects Table 4:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - CEC Rerate Status Summary Table 5:  Idle Biomass Plants Potentially Capable of Restart Mary Schoen Environmental Strategies Enron Corp 
Increase? 
Jeff -- Some questions - 1. The $10 Billion looks low.  Is there anyway to use something the UDCs=20 would have on file? 2. What interest rate is embedded within the mortgage?  Does this assume th= e=20 benefits of securitization? 3. What are the appropriate rate mechanisms?  The UDCs will need to be able= =20 to convince Wall Street that this rate component is ""good"" for the collecti= on. 4. We need to include going forward costs of CDWR in this model - how much= =20 money will rates need to raise to cover current expenses? 5. Does the kwh load include Direct Access customers?   Will this rate=20 component be non-bypassable? Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 02/26/2001 06:50 PM =20 
ease? Greetings: Please review the attached.  It's a summary I've put together of a very=20 lengthy analysis MRW did for us over the weekend.  I've also attached the= =20 considerably lengthier MRW memo for those who'd like to see it.  The tables= =20 included in the summary are pulled directly from the MRW memo.  The analysi= s=20 only addresses the utilities undercollection (i.e., solvency) and doesn't= =20 address any additional increases that might result from DWR's buying=20 activities. The Bottom Line =06=15 By raising average rates 10% over a 10-year period, California could= 1)=20 return the utilities to solvency, and 2) help close the  supply-demand gap = by=20 providing customers with better price signals. =06=15 California could achieve these goals under this new rate structure a= nd at=20 the same time exclude one-third of residential  customers from any increase= s.=20 If California chose not to exclude any customers from the new rate structur= e,=20 California  would only need to raise average rates by about 8.8%. =06=15 This level of increase is in line with increases enacted in other st= ates=20 (e.g., Washington: 28-34%; Montana: 4.5-32%; Idaho:  6.0-24%; Nevada:=20 7-12.5%; New Mexico 12%). We'll need to look at it critically and try to shoot holes in it before goi= ng=20 public with the numbers as part of our broader effort, but it offers a=20 reasonable benchmark against which to judge alternatives (like spending the= =20 kids lunch money on crumbling, broken down transmission systems). Please provide feedback as soon as possible, and perhaps, Paul we conclude= =20 the MRW work on the agenda for discussion on tomorrow's daily conference ca= ll. Best, Jeff - Undercollection assessment final.doc 
I am forwarding some Wall Street comments from Kathryn Corbally related to the Transmission buyout. Looks like they view it as very favorable - not a major hit against EPS tied to full recovery of remaining undercollection. Not sure yet if they incorporate the going forward - maybe SCE doesn't want any merchant obligations? Jim 
Jim, Have sent you three notes that show some level of support to activity in California - its probably a little bias since there are a few reports out there that say quote the 'devil is in the details' and quote 'the odds of bankruptcty remain in the 50% range.' Note1 09:42am EST 26-Feb-01 ABN AMRO Inc. (Ford,Daniel F. 212/258-1548) CPN DYN EIX One Down Two to Go One Down Two to Go ABN AMRO -- Research Notes 
Companies Mentioned: CPN, DYN#, EIX, PCG, SRE Analyst:  Daniel F. Ford, CFA  212/258-1548 Po Cheng, CFA  212/258-1709 ============================================================================== = 
FYI.  Here are letters Enron (Steve Kean) sent to US Senators about real solutions for California.  The Feinstein / Murkowski letters are very good overviews of our recommendations on what to do and what not to do. Jim 
Attached are the letters sent to Senators Wyden, Feinstein & Murkowski. 
The proposed purchase of the PGE and SCE's transmission grids have vastly different short term liquidity effects for PGE and SCE.   If the current proposal is at 2.3x book, and assuming the first mortgage bond holders want complete repayment in return for releasing their liens, the numbers (at 12-99) fall out: in millions                   PGE        SCE Book Value                    1.43       1.90 Multiple of Book              2.3x       2.3x Cash Price                   $3.29      $4.37 -First Mortgage Bonds        $3.35      $1.18 Resulting liquidity         ($0.06)     $3.19 Note that the first mortgage holders may release their liens in return for partial payment based on remaining value.  Nonetheless, PGE's situation is not as flexible. 
Here is some background to give to Delainey. Jim 
Here are the facts to be converted into Talking Points / Facts Sheet for CA TEAM. Thanks, Jim 
Attached is a memo comparing the CEC's forecasted supply and a more realistic look at what additional resources might be available this summer. The bottom line is that: 1.  The CEC significantly underestimates the outages that may occur this summer.  They estimate in their 5,000 MW supply deficit for the summer that expected outages will be around 3,000MW.  However, November and December saw significantly higher outage levels.  (7,265 MWs) The FERC has investigated these outages and found no improprieties- just that the plants are overtaxed from running at higher than normal capacities. 2.  There are a lot of uncertainties surrounding the 1,244 MWs of projected supply from rerating/restarting existing thermal and renewable projects.  It is very unclear how much of this will be able to come on line by this summer, if at all.  As evidenced by the e-mail I sent out this morning, local communities may be very opposed to restarting shut down units.  In addition, these units are likely to be uneconomical. 3.  In the existing resource pool, there are roughly 1,430 MWs of peaking or other generation units that are running up against their operating hour limitations from air quality regulations.  The Governor has ordered the local air quality districts to address these restrictions,  We are beginning to seem some movement; however, the US EPA has yet to weigh in on these relaxed standards. 4.  The distributed generation/back-up generation capacity to make up some of the shortfall is still an unknown.  While there has been some relaxing of the limitations on run hours for back-up generation at ""essential public services"" the increase in DG is expected from ""clean"" sources, not diesel emergency generators. 5.  The CEC is doing everything it can to get 50+ MW peaking units on-line by this summer.  They are promising a 21-day permit application approval process and are offering to pay half of the cost of offsets, for ""clean"" sources of generation in critical areas. Please let me know if you have any questions or need additional information. CEC's Summer Forecasted Peak Demand - Resource Balance: List of Peakers running into their operating hour limitations: Also available in hard copy format only: (please e-mail me your fax number if you'd like a copy) Table 1:  Fully Executed CA ISO Summer Reliability Agreements (the ISO Peaking Facilities) Table 2:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Renewables Construction Status Summary Table 3:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Rerate of Non-CEC Projects Table 4:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - CEC Rerate Status Summary Table 5:  Idle Biomass Plants Potentially Capable of Restart Mary Schoen Environmental Strategies Enron Corp 
The following items are available or being produced by Enron resources to support the on-going activities related to California.  If I've missed anything, let me know. When anyone needs new material, please feel free to contact John Neslage. John Neslage will keep the material and should be apprised of any new material.  John's number is 713-853-6827. Thanks, Jim ------------------------------------------ READY TO GO Steve Kean Letter to Sen. Feinstein  RE:  California Status Steve Kean Letter to Sen. Wyden RE:  Information Release Enron Fixes for California (attached) CERA Highlights on California Crisis IN PRODUCTION One Page Fact Sheet - Buy Books, Not the Grid One Page Fact Sheet - Enron's Opposition to Cal ISO Takeover by California Politicans (Mirant v. ISO) One Page Fact Sheet - How Big a Blackout for Summer 2002? One Page Fact Sheet - Enron's Global Solution EPA Package - Necessary Fixes to Increase Supply 
Michael Tribolet held a conference call this evening to discuss Enron Wind's legal obligations given SCE's non-payment.  In general, given the legal structure of Enron Wind, some action may be required from a partnership perspective. The key next step is action on SB47 - Interim Short-Term Avoided Cost Methodology.  Enron Wind is unlikely to take any action if real progress is made by this Friday.  If not, a different action plan will occur.   This may change if other renewable QFs sue (for instance FP&L - who has retained counsel but don't want to be the first to take action). They will begin to draft some pleadings to prepare for legal action (in case this is necessary). Michael Tribolet is on point to hear if EWC takes any action and we should be apprised before they move. Jim 
While we don't need to do any lobbying on this bill, if anyone hears any information about chances for success it would be good to get the info to me.  Enron Wind has an interest in seeing this bill move forward. Thanks, Jim 
Despite the fact the bill, by itself, does not guarantee payment for overdue receivables, the QFs on today's call decided to go forward and push for SBX 47 irrespective of the progress on SBX 33.  A press conference is planned for Friday by IEP.  Bowen, who heads up the first committee that this bill will go through will have hearings on this bill on Tuesday at the earliest. Jan S-J asked every QF to fax to IEP a description of all QF generation and the zip code of each project so that they can begin lobbying specific legislators.  A significant PR push is planned. SBX 47 is opposed by SCE.  PG&E's position appears more ambivalent.  One angle would be to try to get PG&E to support Enron's swap/SC language and make inclusion of such language a condition of PG&E's support. GAC 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
Here is a slightly reformatted note (1 page) that also adds Competitive Default Supply.  Give me your comments ASAP. It sure doesn't look too good for the forces of ""right"". Jim 
Attached below are talking points for tomorrow morning's meeting with Dave Delainey.  Please let me know if you have anything additional to add, or if you want to make a suggestion regarding what already is there.  I know there is a very slight formatting error on the second page, but we will get that corrected first thing in the morning. Thanks John 
here is the final Jim 
Attached please find the ENA Government Affairs report for Feb '01.  I tried to incorporate the material from the IRTF reports. I have asked Eric Benson to help me put these together going forward so hopefully they will be out the first week of the month. My other request is to see if people can modify their IRTF to include some new data - WHAT ACTIONS WILL OCCUR IN NEXT 30 DAYS THAT NEED ATTENTION OF MANAGEMENT.  This report is too  backward looking in its current form.  I want to try and make this a listing of what is going to happen over the next 30 days to begin to get ENA management thinking about the issues. Thanks, Jim 
Please review and respond as quickly as possible. Jim 
Takeover 
Attached is a set of draft talking points for Lay to discuss with Governor Davis related to not opposing California's takeover of the transmission network.  Please let me know if anyone has any comments. Jim 
Attached please find a changed Talking Points - 1. Tries to better finesse the rate increase proposal by limiting increase to 10%; 2. Corrects the cost of new generation - 4,000 MW costs $3.6 billion not $360 million; 3. Clarifies that CDWR's problem is paying off the debt, not just paying for electricity. Thanks, Jim 
FYI.  Info on Gov Davis meeting with Wall Street. Jim 
This is one of the better overviews of all the issues from CSFB. . 
I recommend that we ask MRW to do a quick and dirty (nothing more than $10k) to quantify Steve's qualitative analysis.  Good to have before we fight this out at FERC.  If someone internal can do it, great. Thoughts? Jim 
Jeff, In order for California to ""shut its doors"" it must open its interconnections with the rest of the west and become a Texas-like electrical island.  This they cannot do.  California has a substantial investment in units located in Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.  The lights would go out in California if they opened the ties.  In the 1970's there was a hue and cry over loop flow, with California claiming that it was being injured by others, particularly by the interior systems trading practices, however they never considered opening the ties, because the benefits of interconnection were so large that the ""cost"" of loop flow was far exceeded by the value of regional trade, i.e., they are economically interdependent. If such a foolish thing were done and California full ""closed its doors"" by opening its ties, cost would go up in the Northwest, in California and all the rest of the Western System.  There are ""gains for trade"" which accrue to all parties from interconnection.  The trade is more complicated than just summer/winter peaks (seasonal load diversity) there is also seasonal resource diversity (Spring run off effects) and finally there opportunity to capitalize on storage vs base load thermal operations.  I will address the last point first to illustrate the complexity of the trading patterns. The interior west (Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico) has large amount of base load coal plants.  As load drops off in those areas, the energy flows to the coast to back off peaking plants and to back off hydro. The reduction of hydro production allows night time reservoir refill which can be used to meet peak load in the Northwest and California.  This can be seen in the attached file, which contains a set of plots for hourly flow on the Pacific DC Intertie Jun97, Dec 97, Jun 98, Dec 98, Jun 99, Dec 99, Jun00.  In these plots the clear day/night exchange of energy can be seen, especially in the Jun00 plot when sales are being made to California in the day and to the Northwest at night.  This day to night storage exchange benefits lowers costs for everyone. On top of this daily/weekly cycle, there is the seasonal shift in load diversity you noted.  For the Northwest, its peak load occurs when energy production is the lowest -- during the winter.  As a stand alone system, the Pacific Northwest (i.e., the Columbia Drainage area) is energy constrained. The hydro in that area does not produce enough energy to meet annual needs. There is plenty of generating capacity to meet any peak, but not enough to total water flow.  Energy imports from Wyoming and Montana (e.g. Colstrip and Bridger) are required to allow the Pacific Northwest to meet its annual energy requirement.  With these energy inputs from the coal fields, the seasonal water budget can be arranged to get the most value out of the hydro system, although fish, navigation, irrigation, etc. impose an increasing number of constraints.  Energy imports from in the winter from the South help to meet this energy balance during the winter so water can be reserved until the snow pack is better know in early Spring.  Some of the sales to the Northwest from California during the winter are a result of displacement from Desert Southwest energy moving through California and then up the Interties to the Northwest. Finally, the Spring run off/fish flush when production on the river is at a maximum and load in the Northwest is down.  The sale of these surpluses paid for the Pacific Intertie lines and remain important to the entire system. Much system maintenance of base load units has been historically been planned to take advantage of this factor.  Again both California and the Northwest benefit from this trade. In all cases, the parties would be worse off if the ties were open and everyone was on their own.  The Northwest may be capacity long, but it is typically energy short, even in flush hydro years.  The winter energy imports from the South hold Northwest costs down just as spring run off sales to the South lower energy costs in California.  California cannot craft a solo solution that ignores the rest of the West.  It is probably hard to decide who would be worst off if California ""closed its doors"".  It is only clear that total cost would rise in both California and the rest of the West from which it divorced itself. I hope this rambling response comes at the question you raise. Steve Jeff Dasovich@ENRON Sent by: Jeff Dasovich@ENRON 02/28/2001 11:35 AM 
To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems to always be tied to this notion that ""California is a net importer, even in the winter.""  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets. Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion: If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has developed over the years. To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist. The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the summer. Let's take two scenarios: 1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California. Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking. The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California closes its doors. 2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power. I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW (e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the question that Jim asks. With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW is long---how can California closing it doors not increase the PNW's cost of power? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 02/28/2001 08:05 AM 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
Guys -- Spoke with Dave Duran (lead dealmaker) about Project INGA.  He is considering purchasing fleet of QFs.  Exposure to CA - SCE.  Need to make sure that we understand the deal model and regulatory / bankruptcy assumptions. I've asked John Neslage to get with RAC Underwriting (Chip Schneider) to make sure that we see the economics.  Please help John as much as possible. Thanks, 
Are we working on this in Sacramento?  Do we have language?  What is the level of interest? Jim 
For the last two days I participated in the negotiations between several QFs and the utilities regarding implementation of SBX 47. The goal of the meeting was to present a substantially complete ""Agreement of Long-Term Gas Purchase Arrangement""  to Battin this Thursday. Through this document they intend to describe what the parties have agreed to and the changes required in the bill to conform to the parties agreement. Attendees included PG&E and SDG&E (SCE is clearly opposed to the bill), Calpine, El Paso, Sithe and the CCC represented by White and Case. It appears that SDG&E's support for the bill is weakening with their mantra being ""if this doesn't guarantee a price reduction over the five years we won't support the bill."" We explained that the goal is not so much overall price reduction as price stabilization, with current period price reduction. PG&E clearly gets it. I was successful in introducing and inserting the financial hedging option into the Gas Agreement. Both PG&E and SDG&E are very supportive of such an option as they are currently prohibited from entering into such arrangements. It is less clear if the large QFs are supportive. Their primary goal is to find a safe harbor from the Wood decision for the next five years. I also believe the proposed gas procurement structure provides some option value to the larger QFs. Although it looks like our language will be in the Gas Agreement, I think we need to get some language in the bill itself. I am working with Sandi and Mike Day to make that happen. We may also want to add the concept of economic dispatch to the bill. Mike, do you have any suggested language that I could forward to Sandi and Mike Day? Finally, I suggest we try and set up individual meetings with the utilities (including SCE) to discuss our ideas further. I'm not sure what other conversations are occurring with the utilities, but I would be happy to set up the meetings with the appropriate people. Thanks, Mark Alan Comnes 02/27/2001 08:32 PM 
Despite the fact the bill, by itself, does not guarantee payment for overdue receivables, the QFs on today's call decided to go forward and push for SBX 47 irrespective of the progress on SBX 33.  A press conference is planned for Friday by IEP.  Bowen, who heads up the first committee that this bill will go through will have hearings on this bill on Tuesday at the earliest. Jan S-J asked every QF to fax to IEP a description of all QF generation and the zip code of each project so that they can begin lobbying specific legislators.  A significant PR push is planned. SBX 47 is opposed by SCE.  PG&E's position appears more ambivalent.  One angle would be to try to get PG&E to support Enron's swap/SC language and make inclusion of such language a condition of PG&E's support. GAC 
I recommend that we ask MRW to do a quick and dirty (nothing more than $10k) to quantify Steve's qualitative analysis.  Good to have before we fight this out at FERC.  If someone internal can do it, great. Thoughts? Jim 
Jeff, In order for California to ""shut its doors"" it must open its interconnections with the rest of the west and become a Texas-like electrical island.  This they cannot do.  California has a substantial investment in units located in Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.  The lights would go out in California if they opened the ties.  In the 1970's there was a hue and cry over loop flow, with California claiming that it was being injured by others, particularly by the interior systems trading practices, however they never considered opening the ties, because the benefits of interconnection were so large that the ""cost"" of loop flow was far exceeded by the value of regional trade, i.e., they are economically interdependent. If such a foolish thing were done and California full ""closed its doors"" by opening its ties, cost would go up in the Northwest, in California and all the rest of the Western System.  There are ""gains for trade"" which accrue to all parties from interconnection.  The trade is more complicated than just summer/winter peaks (seasonal load diversity) there is also seasonal resource diversity (Spring run off effects) and finally there opportunity to capitalize on storage vs base load thermal operations.  I will address the last point first to illustrate the complexity of the trading patterns. The interior west (Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico) has large amount of base load coal plants.  As load drops off in those areas, the energy flows to the coast to back off peaking plants and to back off hydro. The reduction of hydro production allows night time reservoir refill which can be used to meet peak load in the Northwest and California.  This can be seen in the attached file, which contains a set of plots for hourly flow on the Pacific DC Intertie Jun97, Dec 97, Jun 98, Dec 98, Jun 99, Dec 99, Jun00.  In these plots the clear day/night exchange of energy can be seen, especially in the Jun00 plot when sales are being made to California in the day and to the Northwest at night.  This day to night storage exchange benefits lowers costs for everyone. On top of this daily/weekly cycle, there is the seasonal shift in load diversity you noted.  For the Northwest, its peak load occurs when energy production is the lowest -- during the winter.  As a stand alone system, the Pacific Northwest (i.e., the Columbia Drainage area) is energy constrained. The hydro in that area does not produce enough energy to meet annual needs. There is plenty of generating capacity to meet any peak, but not enough to total water flow.  Energy imports from Wyoming and Montana (e.g. Colstrip and Bridger) are required to allow the Pacific Northwest to meet its annual energy requirement.  With these energy inputs from the coal fields, the seasonal water budget can be arranged to get the most value out of the hydro system, although fish, navigation, irrigation, etc. impose an increasing number of constraints.  Energy imports from in the winter from the South help to meet this energy balance during the winter so water can be reserved until the snow pack is better know in early Spring.  Some of the sales to the Northwest from California during the winter are a result of displacement from Desert Southwest energy moving through California and then up the Interties to the Northwest. Finally, the Spring run off/fish flush when production on the river is at a maximum and load in the Northwest is down.  The sale of these surpluses paid for the Pacific Intertie lines and remain important to the entire system. Much system maintenance of base load units has been historically been planned to take advantage of this factor.  Again both California and the Northwest benefit from this trade. In all cases, the parties would be worse off if the ties were open and everyone was on their own.  The Northwest may be capacity long, but it is typically energy short, even in flush hydro years.  The winter energy imports from the South hold Northwest costs down just as spring run off sales to the South lower energy costs in California.  California cannot craft a solo solution that ignores the rest of the West.  It is probably hard to decide who would be worst off if California ""closed its doors"".  It is only clear that total cost would rise in both California and the rest of the West from which it divorced itself. I hope this rambling response comes at the question you raise. Steve Jeff Dasovich@ENRON Sent by: Jeff Dasovich@ENRON 02/28/2001 11:35 AM 
To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems to always be tied to this notion that ""California is a net importer, even in the winter.""  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets. Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion: If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has developed over the years. To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist. The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the summer. Let's take two scenarios: 1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California. Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking. The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California closes its doors. 2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power. I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW (e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the question that Jim asks. With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW is long---how can California closing it doors not increase the PNW's cost of power? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 02/28/2001 08:05 AM 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
Sue, etal - It's important to monitor and support the section - (b)  The right of a retail end use customer who has not purchased power from an electrical corporation on or after January 17, 2001 to purchase power from an alternate provider may not be limited by this section. I think that this would take care of the UC/CSU issues (does anyone disagree)? Jim Susan J Mara 03/01/2001 06:43 PM 
This is an OK bill.  Not well drafted. It's also overly complicated and proscriptive. Deletes the offensive part of ABX 1. It allows anybody to do whatever they want until June 1 (section 2 d) On June 1, - res and small commercial customers can get in a cue and get DA up to the # of MWs that are added through load growth. (Section 2 e) -- Larger customers would pay an exit fee. (section 2 f) -- DA customers would be a entrance fee to return to IOU service (Section 2 g) There is also a confusing section (2 c) that says a retail customer is only stuck with CDWR for the proportion of power that CDWR provides.  The way it reads, if CDWR is providing 40% of the IOUs' power, the retail customer can get DA for 60% of its load.  I doubt that will fly -- too difficult to keep track of and ISO will oppose (only one scheduling coordinator/meter) A conference call and meeting is scheduled with parties tomorrow on this language. Will keep you apprised. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Attached, please find the proposed amendments to SBX 27 (Bowen) relating to direct access.  There will be a direct access coalition conference call tomorrow to discuss current events as well as the new language. - SB27Xlanguage.doc 
On your last point, I think that we need to as rate class specific as possible without delaying their work.  Disagreements? Jim Robert Neustaedter@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 03/01/2001 06:20 PM 
Spoke with Bill Munson and Roger Yang of MRW Scope of project would be rate forecast for PGE and SCE industrial/commercial class customers for 24-36 month period providing alternate scenarios for certain issues - MRW will provide assumptions Friday morning. Cost - Close of Monday deliverable - $10k - Thursday - $7k FYI - Submitted RCR for $25K With respect to determination of ""Net Short"" generation cost - MRW suggested generation cost be allocated on a cost incurrence basis (no subsidies) and that we agree as to mix of DRW portfolio and utilize Enron forward curves to price out Provided to MRW utility tariff schedules that majority of positions are under.  Need to determine if we want an individual rate projection, average rate class projection or benchmark projection (%increase). 
In case you hadn't seen. Jim 
Here is the letter that is going out today. 
FYI.  Will try and keep everyone informed. Jim 
Here is a brief summary of today's call with UC-CSU: Attended by business and legal representatives from each side (including University outside counsel) to discuss views of the dispute Universities are entrenched in their position that we did not have the right to D-DASR their accounts; their demeanor was relatively aggressive They have asked us to explain in more detail our reason for D-DASRing their accounts, including how that action ""enhances our ability to fulfill the cost guarantee"" under the agreement They demanded again that we return their accounts to our service, and we refused again We reiterated our position that we have the right under the contract to D-DASR and that continued performance of physical delivery was and continues to be commercially impracticable. We pointed out that their actions are impeding our exercise of our rights under the agreement. They expressed an unwillingness to continue the dialogue around a commercial solution until we return their accounts to our service. We agreed to have another telephone conference Monday, but we do not expect much progress. Although not threatened, it remains likely that the universities are considering seeking some sort of injunctive relief 
Sue, etal - It's important to monitor and support the section - (b)  The right of a retail end use customer who has not purchased power from an electrical corporation on or after January 17, 2001 to purchase power from an alternate provider may not be limited by this section. I think that this would take care of the UC/CSU issues (does anyone disagree)? Jim Susan J Mara 03/01/2001 06:43 PM 
This is an OK bill.  Not well drafted. It's also overly complicated and proscriptive. Deletes the offensive part of ABX 1. It allows anybody to do whatever they want until June 1 (section 2 d) On June 1, - res and small commercial customers can get in a cue and get DA up to the # of MWs that are added through load growth. (Section 2 e) -- Larger customers would pay an exit fee. (section 2 f) -- DA customers would be a entrance fee to return to IOU service (Section 2 g) There is also a confusing section (2 c) that says a retail customer is only stuck with CDWR for the proportion of power that CDWR provides.  The way it reads, if CDWR is providing 40% of the IOUs' power, the retail customer can get DA for 60% of its load.  I doubt that will fly -- too difficult to keep track of and ISO will oppose (only one scheduling coordinator/meter) A conference call and meeting is scheduled with parties tomorrow on this language. Will keep you apprised. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Attached, please find the proposed amendments to SBX 27 (Bowen) relating to direct access.  There will be a direct access coalition conference call tomorrow to discuss current events as well as the new language. - SB27Xlanguage.doc 
I recommend that we ask MRW to do a quick and dirty (nothing more than $10k) to quantify Steve's qualitative analysis.  Good to have before we fight this out at FERC.  If someone internal can do it, great. Thoughts? Jim 
Jeff, In order for California to ""shut its doors"" it must open its interconnections with the rest of the west and become a Texas-like electrical island.  This they cannot do.  California has a substantial investment in units located in Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.  The lights would go out in California if they opened the ties.  In the 1970's there was a hue and cry over loop flow, with California claiming that it was being injured by others, particularly by the interior systems trading practices, however they never considered opening the ties, because the benefits of interconnection were so large that the ""cost"" of loop flow was far exceeded by the value of regional trade, i.e., they are economically interdependent. If such a foolish thing were done and California full ""closed its doors"" by opening its ties, cost would go up in the Northwest, in California and all the rest of the Western System.  There are ""gains for trade"" which accrue to all parties from interconnection.  The trade is more complicated than just summer/winter peaks (seasonal load diversity) there is also seasonal resource diversity (Spring run off effects) and finally there opportunity to capitalize on storage vs base load thermal operations.  I will address the last point first to illustrate the complexity of the trading patterns. The interior west (Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico) has large amount of base load coal plants.  As load drops off in those areas, the energy flows to the coast to back off peaking plants and to back off hydro. The reduction of hydro production allows night time reservoir refill which can be used to meet peak load in the Northwest and California.  This can be seen in the attached file, which contains a set of plots for hourly flow on the Pacific DC Intertie Jun97, Dec 97, Jun 98, Dec 98, Jun 99, Dec 99, Jun00.  In these plots the clear day/night exchange of energy can be seen, especially in the Jun00 plot when sales are being made to California in the day and to the Northwest at night.  This day to night storage exchange benefits lowers costs for everyone. On top of this daily/weekly cycle, there is the seasonal shift in load diversity you noted.  For the Northwest, its peak load occurs when energy production is the lowest -- during the winter.  As a stand alone system, the Pacific Northwest (i.e., the Columbia Drainage area) is energy constrained. The hydro in that area does not produce enough energy to meet annual needs. There is plenty of generating capacity to meet any peak, but not enough to total water flow.  Energy imports from Wyoming and Montana (e.g. Colstrip and Bridger) are required to allow the Pacific Northwest to meet its annual energy requirement.  With these energy inputs from the coal fields, the seasonal water budget can be arranged to get the most value out of the hydro system, although fish, navigation, irrigation, etc. impose an increasing number of constraints.  Energy imports from in the winter from the South help to meet this energy balance during the winter so water can be reserved until the snow pack is better know in early Spring.  Some of the sales to the Northwest from California during the winter are a result of displacement from Desert Southwest energy moving through California and then up the Interties to the Northwest. Finally, the Spring run off/fish flush when production on the river is at a maximum and load in the Northwest is down.  The sale of these surpluses paid for the Pacific Intertie lines and remain important to the entire system. Much system maintenance of base load units has been historically been planned to take advantage of this factor.  Again both California and the Northwest benefit from this trade. In all cases, the parties would be worse off if the ties were open and everyone was on their own.  The Northwest may be capacity long, but it is typically energy short, even in flush hydro years.  The winter energy imports from the South hold Northwest costs down just as spring run off sales to the South lower energy costs in California.  California cannot craft a solo solution that ignores the rest of the West.  It is probably hard to decide who would be worst off if California ""closed its doors"".  It is only clear that total cost would rise in both California and the rest of the West from which it divorced itself. I hope this rambling response comes at the question you raise. Steve Jeff Dasovich@ENRON Sent by: Jeff Dasovich@ENRON 02/28/2001 11:35 AM 
To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems to always be tied to this notion that ""California is a net importer, even in the winter.""  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets. Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion: If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has developed over the years. To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist. The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the summer. Let's take two scenarios: 1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California. Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking. The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California closes its doors. 2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power. I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW (e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the question that Jim asks. With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW is long---how can California closing it doors not increase the PNW's cost of power? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 02/28/2001 08:05 AM 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
Jeff -- Please add John Neslage to your e-mail list. 
Jeff -- Some minor edits.  Looks good. Jim 
On your last point, I think that we need to as rate class specific as possible without delaying their work.  Disagreements? Jim Robert Neustaedter@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 03/01/2001 06:20 PM 
Spoke with Bill Munson and Roger Yang of MRW Scope of project would be rate forecast for PGE and SCE industrial/commercial class customers for 24-36 month period providing alternate scenarios for certain issues - MRW will provide assumptions Friday morning. Cost - Close of Monday deliverable - $10k - Thursday - $7k FYI - Submitted RCR for $25K With respect to determination of ""Net Short"" generation cost - MRW suggested generation cost be allocated on a cost incurrence basis (no subsidies) and that we agree as to mix of DRW portfolio and utilize Enron forward curves to price out Provided to MRW utility tariff schedules that majority of positions are under.  Need to determine if we want an individual rate projection, average rate class projection or benchmark projection (%increase). 
FYI.  This information comes from ENA Competitive Analysis.  Not sure if you're getting this. Jim 
Executive Summary ? If no comprehensive deal is reached by April 9th, chances of bankruptcy increase due to a one day ""opt-out"" clause in all long-term power contracts. ? PG&E and State locked in tough negotiations, several issues on the table: PUC-imposed requirement forcing PG&E to ultimately be responsible for California energy supplies Price of the grid; state - 2.3 times book value vs. PG&E - 4 times book value ? PG&E will not use any of the $1B secured last week to help their ailing utility. ? Davis's announcement of long term power contract didn't include some details: Of the 8,800 megawatts secured this far, only 6,000 are available this summer Some of the ""long term contracts"" are really only for three months None of the contracts prevent California from buying peak demand on the spot market ? One the same day Davis announced long term contracts, Davis also quietly announce a 10% rate hike. ? FERC may be the wild card in approving this deal. PG&E Transmissions deal One thing that is still uncertain is PG&E.  Bankruptcy may still be a likely alternative if current negotiations to buy PG&E's share of the electric transmission grid fail to produce a deal by April 9 (when all long-term power contracts being negotiated have a one-day ""opt-out"" clause they can exercise unilaterally if a ""comprehensive solution"" has not been reached by the state and its major utilities).  According to sources close to senior PG&E officials, PG&E made it clear that any hope for a politically acceptable deal on the transmission lines depends on the California government's willingness to make a major financial commitment it has been completely unwilling to make until now. PG&E will not make a final deal to sell its grid unless Davis agrees to relieve it of the PUC-imposed requirement to be the ""electricity buyer of last resort.""  Current state regulations make the utility companies ultimately responsible for generating or purchasing enough electricity at all times to supply California's energy needs.  As long as the state steps in and makes those purchases, as it has for the past three months, the utilities are shielded from absorbing the losses generated by paying premiums for spot market power and selling to consumers who are shielded by low rate ceilings. But, PG&E officials are worried 1) this summer's supply and 2) Davis's concern over how fast he is draining the state's budget surplus.  If things get into a crunch this summer and Davis makes a new decision that the state will pay only for the electricity it buys through long-term contracts, then PG&E will be left holding the bag. Thus, as part of the negotiations over buying the electricity grid, PG&E is demanding a ""comprehensive solution"" that includes not being liable for cost differentials between the spot market purchase and what consumers are allowed to pay.  State officials are in no mood to grant that kind of ""get out of jail free"" card, so the two sides remain locked in extremely tough negotiations that are complicated by three other factors: (1) PG&E's public behavior and welter of announcements in the past few days that seem to encourage suppliers to force involuntary bankruptcy; (2) State legislative demands that the price Davis negotiate for PG&E's part of the electricity grid be no more than 2.3 times revenues from the grid; and (3) the FERC must ""positively approve"" any grid purchase by the state of California. The principal concern on the price front is that PG&E wants to sell the electricity grid for nearly four times the estimated book value of their transmission, while consumer groups insist that two times book value is the politically acceptable limit.  ""We see 2.3 times book value as an absolute upper bound. There is no way PG&E will get more than that, whatever they think,"" according to the leader of one main consumer groups.  ""We are going to try to force any deals down to about 2.0 in any case."" Negotiators for Davis are also trying to 'proposition-proof' any transmission deal to protect against a later ballot proposal.  They think there are ways to do that, but not if the price of PG&E's part of the grid triggers a ballot initiative. Remember, if Davis's eventual solution triggers a ballot initiative, he will be running for re-election on the same ballot as a public initiative designed to overturn his solution. On the Sacramento front - no one understands PG&E's motives The one question no one in Sacramento can figure out is what kind of game PG&E is playing.  In a three day period PG&E made a series of announcements that left everyone scratching their heads. ? Late Thursday, PG&E officials leaked information to California papers that they had agreed in principle to sell their part of the electricity transmission grid to the state, which seemed like obvious good news, but then made it clear in discussions that the price they were asking was at least 30% above what the state was currently offering.  While a deal can still be done, anything like the $10 billion PG&E wants would be very hard to get through the California legislature which needs to approve any purchase. ? Late Friday, PG&E officials announced that they had secured a $1 billion loan for the parent company (not the electricity utility) and would use the money to pay off bondholders, other creditors and to return $161 million to shareholders in a new dividend payout.  Not a cent of that money was earmarked to help the struggling electricity orphan of PG&E and that left at least one rating agency convinced that the company was more ready to send the utility into bankruptcy than had been previously understood. ? Over the weekend, PG&E leaked a story claiming that it was willing to pay off its energy suppliers' debt for 15 cents on the dollar right now.  For generators who are having to make decisions each morning about whether to start legal actions that protect their rights in any eventual bankruptcy action or hold off on the assumption that the politics of this process will ""make them whole"" in a couple of months, that kind of trial balloon is extremely unnerving. Thus, in a very short time period, PG&E's corporate owners showed they could access public credit markets with relative ease and then showed that they were unwilling to use these funds to smooth the way toward a solution to the energy crisis.  Davis has demanded that all of the major utilities absorb at least a part of the $13 billion debt they have accumulated since last summer and PG&E's fund-raising will harden and deepen those demands.  As one senior political official told our source ""just when you think the corporate leadership of that company has insulted us as completely as possible, they 
I would like to start at 11:30 given some prior committments.  Jeff should have the document ready to review.  We can get through this in 1.5 hours. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/07/2001 09:29 AM 
I think we may have decided to start at 11 AM?  I have a 1 PM meeting. Possible to start at 11? Best, Jeff Marcia A Linton 03/07/2001 08:22 AM 
A conference call meeting has been set up for 11:30 am today, March 7 to discuss EES Negative CTC.  Conference room EB-4746 has been reserved for the Houston participants.  The call-in number for the call will be: 888-422-7137 Host Code (for Jim only) - 438907 Participant Code (for everyone else) - 865493 If you have any questions regarding this call, please give me a call at 713-853-3226. Thanks, Marcia 
Here is the chart 
Jeff Dasovich is taking the lead. Jim Vicki Sharp@EES 03/10/2001 10:35 AM 
UC/CSU has brought an action in Federal Court in Oakland seeking to have its physical delivery service returned to direct access. Would the  regulatory affairs team I am copying on this letter decide who the point person should be for us to communicate with.  We would hope  that you could participate in the call or we could debrief you afterwards.   Thanks. Dan Leff 03/10/2001 05:56 AM 
Mike Smith needs to be involved in all of this communication Thank you - Dan Donna Teal 03/09/2001 10:48 PM 
Please plan to attend this meeting; Tom and Doug, please call in. 
PLEASE DO NOT DISTRIBUTE THIS OUTSIDE OF ENRON.  WE HAVE NOT YET APPROVED THESE INTERNALLY.  IF ANYONE HAS COMMENTS, PLEASE SEND TO JIM STEFFES FOR INCLUSION. Thanks, Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 05:52 PM 
For what it's worth, here are my edits overlayed on Jim's, Harry's and whomever else provided comments. Best, Jeff James D Steffes 03/12/2001 04:28 PM 
Becky -- Can you please find out (a) details about the emergency expansion on Kern River and (b) key Firm Shippers on Kern River, Mojave, PGT? Philip Allen called me this morning and asked about our ability to ""get a read"" on the potential for other Firm Shippers on Kern River to oppose this expansion.  Can we quietly reach out to our industry contacts (other Govt Affairs shops) to get their opinions? His concern is primarily about Kern expanding into CA will limit other Firm Shippers given the limitations on the SoCal system [Jeff, give me a call to see how this plays in CA]. While we are not a Firm Shipper (and we probably don't want to get directly in front of this - Enron fights expansion), how will FERC and its Staff look at this issue [Donna & Leslie}? Let's try and have the info and a call on Thursday at 4pm Houston time to get back to him afterwards. 
Here are notes on 43x that Harry Kingerski put together. Jim Regarding proposed rate freeze for large SDG&E customers at 6.5 cents: Adds to DWR's burden of covering the net short positions without any further clarification of how shortfall will be funded. The incentive these customers now have to participate in DA and thereby remove burden from DWR is removed. Creates incentives to increase usage and decrease conservation, exactly at the time that just the opposite effect is desired. Rate at frozen level removes all price signal effect in unregulated market. These are customers who under existing law already have had choice, as an alternative to paying market price, of 1) voluntarily opting in to a one year 6.5 cent rate freeze, with a true-up, or 2) buying commodity and risk management products in the competitive market, as many of them have already done, and 3) reducing usage to save money. This bill takes takes away the last two choices/incentives. Adopting ""rates by proxy"" (in a sense, indexed to PG&E and SCE rates) creates the potential for a regulatory nightmare. As an alternative, the Legislature should consider extending the voluntary opt-in program under existing law. This would preserve existing protection, keep choices available to customers, and not unduly add to DWR's burden. I don't think that we have any real facts about usage increases due to the bill, only the general understanding that if prices don't rise people won't take any real action. Jim? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/13/2001 07:12 PM 
If you're referring to the conversation we had on today's call, it's actually a bill by Dede Alpert (sp?) that, if signed by the Governor, would cause demand to go up.  Were you referring to that or something more general? Best, Jeff Janel Guerrero 03/13/2001 06:47 PM 
is it possible to get a one-pager talking points on the san diego situation and how the govenor is increasing the demand on the system as we head into summer?  who can do this? 
Introduced 
FYI. Jim 
Vicki -- I don't have any further additions.  I assume that Dave understands the link between rate freeze end and payment. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/14/2001 03:09 PM 
My comments on Bob's memo. Best, Jeff Vicki Sharp@EES 03/14/2001 02:05 PM 
would like your comments 
Here are the talking points as combined.  If you want to change, let's make sure everyone knows. Jim 
FYI. JDS 
Welcome to The University of California Energy Institute's POWER Working Paper Email Notification Service (PWPENS) The University of California Energy Institute's Program on Workable Energy Regulation (POWER) has distributed working papers since 1992.  With this email, we are launching a service to notify interested researchers, regulators, and practitioners when new POWER working papers become available. All POWER working papers can be downloaded free of charge from the UCEI website:  http://www.ucei.berkeley.edu/ucei  Just follow the link to ""POWER Research"". Below are the titles and abstracts of the POWER working papers that have been released so far in 1999, along with links that allow you to go straight to the full working paper text (available in Adobe Acrobat format).  As new POWER working papers are released, PWPENS will automatically notify you by email. If you would like to be removed from this list, please send an email to Mailto:ucenergy@socrates.berkeley.edu and include UNSUBSCRIBE in the subject heading.  If you received this email indirectly and would like to be added to this emailing list, please send an email to Mailto:ucenergy@socrates.berkeley.edu and include SUBSCRIBE in the subject heading. _________________________________________________________________ N E W   P O W E R   W O R K I N G   P A P E R S Working Paper Series of UCEI _________________________________________________________________ T I T L E S _________________________________________________________________ ""Regulation and the Leverage of Local Market Power in the California Electricity Market"" (September 1999) PWP-070 by James B. Bushnell and Frank A. Wolak 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
Rumor is that the CPUC hearings will begin next week on the URG matters for PG&E and SCE.  Our bankruptcy team needs to be kept in the loop on these matters on a daily basis (as much as possible) given the impact of this decision on the process. Can people attend a conference call on Monday pm or Tuesday am to discuss the key objectives for this case (from bankruptcy perspectives) and coverage (do we need to get outside counsel to sit in the hearings)? I'll ask Linda Noske to coordinate the phone call. Thanks, 
The attached indicates that UC/CSU are still not fully back to DA.  Does it make sense to try and get their help in making sure that the legislation does not limit their return to DA?  What is our current relationship with that customer? Also, does anyone have any problems with Govt Affairs using this information when we are asking for ""clarification"" on the July 12 date?  It may be helpful to highlight for the key legislative members exactly who they are hurting with their decisions. Thanks, Jim 
This is the daily report we get regarding DASR's.  We regularly scrub this report for accuracy but it can give you a feel for where we are in the process.  The ""CA DASR Scorecard"" is a summary. Again, we'll continue to improve the accuracy of the reporting and will keep you in the loop. Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks, Evan 
Here are the reports for the 9:00 CDT update. (See attached file: 071801 500 PM CA COMM STATUS RPRT.xls)   (See attached file: CA DASR Scorecard 071801 500PM.doc) - 071801 500 PM CA COMM STATUS RPRT.xls - CA DASR Scorecard 071801 500PM.doc 
The games continue in California. The date of suspension now being considered in 83xx is July 12.  We are still working (1) to define this in a way that is favorable to getting our recent DASR group authorized for DA service or (2) supporting some other solution. Will keep everyone informed as information comes in. By the way, I've asked Evan Hughes for a detailed listing of how moving the date impacts our success ratio. Jim 
Harry -- Can you track down this bill and determine impact?  We'll discuss on Thursday. Jim 
Is AB 23XX moving with a chance of passage?   I just learned that this Pescetti bill that was AB 1425 was revived as a 2X bill.  It is very anti-competitive, and could hurt a number of TW, EES, or ENA gas deals by binding customers to 100% utility service through the imposition of large exit fees by the CPUC.  If there is a chance that it moves, we need to discuss the effect of this bill.  Mike Day http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_0001-0050/abx2_23_bill_20010625_amend ed_sen.pdf 
Here are some thoughts for Enron to share with at the Analyst meeting. Please let me know if you have any additions, changes, or deletions.  What I tried to put down were the key facts and positions.  If I've missed anything let me know.  This is not a great story. Jim OUR PHYSICAL POSITION IN CALIFORNIA EES has electricity customers within the territories of SCE, PG&E, and SDG&E (about 800 MW of usage) [NOTE - CHECK WITH EES].  EES has natural gas customers within the territories PG&E and SoCal Gas. Enron does not have any generation in California (we own a small QF in Nevada but only have 50 MW excess). We supply power to the Utilities and to our retail load by buying excess in California or by transmitting power into the state.  Enron sells natural gas to the LDCs mainly under spot arrangements. Enron continues to manage the risk by using traditional hedging tools and by using the full complement of resources of EES - demand reduction, load shaping, and efficiency improvements. Transwestern has long-term capacity arrangements with PG&E. OUR POLITICAL POSITION IN CALIFORNIA / MESSAGES The current situation (shortages and potential bankruptcy) is not the result of competitive markets, rather it is the result of barriers to workable retail and wholesale markets designed into the California deregulation model (for instance, the overreliance of the Utilities on the spot market, the residual CTC calculation, incomplete retail tariff unbundling requiring direct access customers to pay more than their fair share for the Utilities' common costs). Enron does not want to see the California Utilities go bankrupt because those naysayers of competition will use this situation as an argument against competition.  Enron disagrees.  What it proves is that not finishing the job of creating real competition can result in problems. Enron believes that there are workable short-term and long-term solutions for California. In the short-term, (1) California must provide credit enhancement or directly buy power for the Utilities' needs to ensure a stable supply of electricity, (2) California should incent customers to institute demand reductions, and (3) California should raise rates to cover reasonable costs so that the Utilities do not petition for bankruptcy. In the long-term, (1) California needs to continue its activities to promote retail competition (and most importantly it must allow real price signals to be sent to large customers), (2) California should implement the changes that the FERC highlighted (end the reliance on the spot market, remove stakeholders on the Cal ISO Board, give the Utilties the ability to recover wholesale power costs), (3) California must remove unnecessary barriers to the development of additional generation capacity, and, most importantly, (4) California must establish reasonable structures so that the Utilities develop a balanced portfolio of supplies to better manage electricity market volatility. California should not get into the business of owning or operating generation assets or transmission facilities. California should not stop moving forward with retail competitition which allows customers to manage price risk rather than some regulator. KEY ENRON ISSUES IN CALIFORNIA We do have outstanding deliveries into the California utilities and would be an unsecured creditor if bankruptcy occurs. We continue to sell to creditworthy counterparties in Western Power markets. [NOTE - THE AMOUNT OF RISK IS AN IR ISSUE THEY WANT TO MANAGE]. The PX Credit (and associated negative CTC) continues to be an issue.  Enron believes that the rate freeze has not yet ended legally and PG&E's and SCE's tariff requires the Utilities to pay funds to the customer's agent.  We filed a Complaint Friday January 19 at the CPUC.  We are confident that these funds will be recovered.  [NOTE - I DON'T THINK WE WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THIS - AGAIN AN IR ISSUE BECAUSE OF THE RECEIVABLE] 
Jeff -- thanks for the call today.  I agree with your perspective on CLEC status / implications for EBS. What we need to think about doing (as we discussed on the phone) is to come up with a regulatory risk assessment of becoming a CLEC in CA -- id key risks assess value at risk (quantitative and qualitative) develop mitigation plans (incld working to end the need to be a CLEC), and assign people to manage the plans. Happy to help as much as possible.  We should try and have this and then discuss with broader EBS WG. Thanks. JDS Jeff Dasovich on 01/24/2000 04:08:28 PM 
you mean you've looked through the contract and still couldn't find them? p.s. ""jeffrina"" is a very ""21st century"" name for little baby girls.  just read about it in vogue magazine. 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
If you had not seen this, it looks like the utilities are now trying to ""help"" FERC find the guilty. What do people thin about beginning to quietly discuss with members of the California state house that the damages of the summer are not (or don't need to) being charged to end use customers.  The utilities are doing a really good job of wrapping themselves with little households.  In fact, TURN signed on to this pleading. While San Diego customers are harmed, other consumers in California are just fine.  Utility shareholders are taking it on the chin.  We need to make sure that policymakers (especially FERC) recognize that in making any kind of refund the real choice is between Power Marketer shareholders and Utility shareholders. Jim 
Mary and Jim: Did you see in the PG&E/SCE filing that the two companies have kindly volunteered (p. 32) to ""assist the Commission in developing a full record and in undertaking the rigorous analysis needed to fix the problems in the California markets and determine refund responsibility"". How kind and public-spirited of them. More seriously, I would expect that they already have a full economic analysis going on prices, damages, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
FYI.  The attached e-mail came into PR unsolicited.  Check out his conclusion.... Jim 
First, let me congratulate you on your terriffic quarter of earnings growth, up 31% over the same period last year . Absolutely spectacular. Your shareholders must be quite happy with that type of performance. Your company executives should be proud. I live in Spring Valley, California. I paid $357 for my electricity for the months of July, August and September. Not only that, I might be on the hook for untold thousands of dollars when the current electric legislation expires in 2002. I know that Enron is a member of the California Power Exchange.  You cannot sit there and tell me that you did not benefit from the exploding energy prices caused by ""DEREGULATION"". And, I'm also pretty sure this is not the only email you have received commenting on the high prices of energy. I just wanted to congratulate you on the fine quarter. Keep sucking up those profits... Like a vampire. Keith Totzke Spring valley, CA 
Here's a new legislative strategy in Sacremento idea based on the attached e-mail   -- 1. Let other's worry about SDG&E fixes.  First, even if the legislature doesn't do anything, the CPUC fix is already in place.  SDG&E doesn't need any statues to ""do the right thing"".  We should just leverage the CPUC. Second, it looks like the Dems and Reps are going to reach conclusion on a SDG&E bill; our language is in the mix.  Let's not be too close in case something blows up. 2. Finish the Williamson Act.  Dave Parquet says that having the fixes now is probably worth $10MM because he can flip the property this year instead of next year (need 4Q00 earnings). 3. Cut a deal with SCE / PG&E / CMA.  The big issue in California is to make money in the place where the market is the biggest.  Also, we need to protect (a) EES' book and (b) ENA's ability to buy and sell in CA without wholesale price caps (this takes no retail rate volatility).    Maybe we could get these parties to agree on some key going forward issues for the market - natural gas restructuring, wholesale market with Flowgate model, deal on key FERC Unresolved Issues, maybe something commercial with PG&E?   The deal is to have the retail rate cap extended, but not the CTC collection, until 12/31/03 with a CPUC opener to 12/31/04.  Not sure if this sales or if they'll let us in the tent, but would be interesting to discuss with Sandi. From what I can tell we seem to be preventing this bill.  Let' remember that this is just going to be an issue next Summer and so why not deal with it now. Please let me know your feedback. Jim 
FYI.  According to Roger, if the freeze is extended out toward 2004 for PG&E and Edison, his book makes BIG money. 
Paul, Joe, & Harry -- We've all talked about holding a meeting to outline our strategy for the next 12 months in the Western states (wholesale and retail) and so I propose the following. 1. GA Strategy Meeting We should come together as just GA before meeting with the business people. I think that we want to have the following people in attendance (like your input) - Paul Kaufman, Joe Hartsoe, Sarah Novosel, Mary Hain, Marcie Milner, Steve Walton, Jim Steffes, Harry Kingerski, Sue Mara, Jeff Dasovich, Bruno Gaillard, Mona Petrochko, Sandi McCubbin. The meeting output would be a Strategy and Tactics Plan for June 2000 - June 2001. 2. GA meeting w/ Business People A few of us could go to Belden, Calger, Yang, Benevides, Condon to discuss the above. I would like to have these meetings soon (maybe Thursday, Sept 7 for #1). Please let me know. 
Karen - We were very involved in the discussions of the report with FERC staff.  The response that Mary filed recently just formalized our earlier verbal comments - now it's on the record.  I am not sure, however, if everything we want will be in the report.  We will monitor very closely. We will participate in the Nov 9 hearing (as much as it makes sense). I agree that we need to be ready for comment on Nov 1 and after to discuss any negative impacts. Jim Karen Denne 10/20/2000 03:29 PM 
How come FERC has finalized their report without our comments?!  We need to be prepared to respond when they issue their report -- we can line up broadcast interviews (CNBC, CNN) in response -- and also target specific publications.  We'll need to prepare ""sound bite"" messages based on our filing (I haven't seen it yet, but Mary Hain is supposed to be sending it). Keep me posted on the time and place of the Nov. 1 press conference.  Also, are we participating in the Nov. 9 public hearing?  Let me know. thx. kd 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
I vote for waiting until Monday to discuss.  This is one part of the larger PR / Government Affairs strategy in California.  We need Karen Denne (PR) to come to Portland for the meeting on Monday. Jim Tim Belden@ECT 10/24/2000 05:54 PM 
When do you guys want to talk through this?  Who should be involved?  Can it wait until Monday when we have our California meeting here in Portland? 
Can everyone help Tom respond within Congress to this message?  Tom, also be forewarned that FERC intends to announce their ""proposed remedies"" on Nov 1 with about 15 days for response.  We need you guys to be ready for messaging this politically. Jim 
It seem sthat the Cal Iso has lost its mind.  Cynthia and I have been trading phone calls with Bilbray's staff to schedule a meeting.  In the event we can get one, can I have help rebutting this stuff.  It seems that the England and Wales Pool, which effectively compelled 100% bidding in the day ahead market was still frought with gaming between the day ahead market and the within day balancing market. 
Tom:  when we meet with Congressman Bilbray's staff, is this something we should bring up and have a position on....I would assume yes......but wanted to close the loop..... -- Cal-ISO Wants Pwr Generators To Forward Bid 70% -Sources Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator is expected to file a petition with federal regulators Friday seeking authority to force generators to bid 70% of their supply into the forward market in an effort to reduce wholesale power costs in the state, according to a source familiar with the issue. An official with the state's Electricity Oversight Board confirmed the details of the filing. The filing calls for FERC to set a ""just and reasonable"" rate for a large fraction of suppliers' capacity, while remaining supply would be able to earn market-based rates, according to the source. In addition, major out-of-state generators would have to enter into forward contracts at FERC mandated rates for ""a significant portion of their 
Attached please find a draft of a Govt Affairs Update that Tim Belden has asked us to keep (Mary Hain has worked on it).  It will help the Desk and our group keep up with what is going on.  I've asked Marcie Milner to try and manage the report (but everyone needs to update their stuff).  We can talk about this at our next meeting.  If you have comments on format, etc. please let Marcie know. Jim PS Marcie , this has some changes that weren't on the last one. 
Rumor is that the CPUC hearings will begin next week on the URG matters for PG&E and SCE.  Our bankruptcy team needs to be kept in the loop on these matters on a daily basis (as much as possible) given the impact of this decision on the process. Can people attend a conference call on Monday pm or Tuesday am to discuss the key objectives for this case (from bankruptcy perspectives) and coverage (do we need to get outside counsel to sit in the hearings)? I'll ask Linda Noske to coordinate the phone call. Thanks, 
The attached indicates that UC/CSU are still not fully back to DA.  Does it make sense to try and get their help in making sure that the legislation does not limit their return to DA?  What is our current relationship with that customer? Also, does anyone have any problems with Govt Affairs using this information when we are asking for ""clarification"" on the July 12 date?  It may be helpful to highlight for the key legislative members exactly who they are hurting with their decisions. Thanks, Jim 
This is the daily report we get regarding DASR's.  We regularly scrub this report for accuracy but it can give you a feel for where we are in the process.  The ""CA DASR Scorecard"" is a summary. Again, we'll continue to improve the accuracy of the reporting and will keep you in the loop. Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks, Evan 
Here are the reports for the 9:00 CDT update. (See attached file: 071801 500 PM CA COMM STATUS RPRT.xls)   (See attached file: CA DASR Scorecard 071801 500PM.doc) - 071801 500 PM CA COMM STATUS RPRT.xls - CA DASR Scorecard 071801 500PM.doc 
The games continue in California. The date of suspension now being considered in 83xx is July 12.  We are still working (1) to define this in a way that is favorable to getting our recent DASR group authorized for DA service or (2) supporting some other solution. Will keep everyone informed as information comes in. By the way, I've asked Evan Hughes for a detailed listing of how moving the date impacts our success ratio. Jim 
Harry -- Can you track down this bill and determine impact?  We'll discuss on Thursday. Jim 
Is AB 23XX moving with a chance of passage?   I just learned that this Pescetti bill that was AB 1425 was revived as a 2X bill.  It is very anti-competitive, and could hurt a number of TW, EES, or ENA gas deals by binding customers to 100% utility service through the imposition of large exit fees by the CPUC.  If there is a chance that it moves, we need to discuss the effect of this bill.  Mike Day http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_0001-0050/abx2_23_bill_20010625_amend ed_sen.pdf 
HERE IS THE MOST RECENT STATEMENT WITH STEVE'S COMMENTS. 
The attached is a rough draft of a potential filing Enron would make in to Judge Wagner in the Settlement process (it is unclear if this would remain confidential per the gag order). Please provide Ray Alvarez your comments.  This would be filed as early as Monday am. Jim 
I think that the goal of Govt Affairs should be to (1) ensure that customers never on utility service post Jan 17 should not pay, and (2) try and find a compromise with the other parties to allow customers who leave by some date certain will only pay for the unrecovered cost  on a $/mwh basis. Basically I am arguing that Enron should require DWR to calculate its unpaid balance on some date certain and determine the appropriate surcharge.   I know that this is a very long shot.  We should make this recommendation as a help to our business teams even if we are going to lose. Do  we need a conference call with Lobbyists to work through this on Thursday? Jim 
As discussed, we have two possible approaches: 1) Home Run Strategy: The following change: The commission shall, within 30 days from the date of the application, issue a bond financing order establishing a DWR Bond Charge that shall be applicable to all electric power delivered in California by electric corporations subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, with the exception of electric power delivered by suppliers other than the utility, who contracted for such delivery prior to the effective date of this legislation. We use San Diego large customers as our example of customers who should be exempt from a surcharge because they have been off bundled rates for the duration of the turmoil. Risk is that our customers will not be fully on until about August 15.  Thus if the wording gets changed to ""who are taking delivery as of the effective date of this legislation"" we have failed. Positive is that it removes the CPUC (anti enron) discretion. 2) 1st Base Strategy: The following change: c) The commission shall conduct such proceedings as it deems necessary to inform the public of the revenue requirements  and to establish rates to enable the department to recover the revenue requirement.  Such rates will be designed  i) such that the bond revenue requirements will be recovered, and ii) to reflect the amount of DWR bond costs that the customer or customer class caused. Risk is that the CPUC will interpret these words unfavorably to us.  ie.  If we touch the system once we pay the whole surcharge. Scott 
Harry.  I read through the proposed legislation.  In summary it: Imposes a DWR Bond surcharge applicable to all electric power delivered in California .... subject to the jurisdiction of the commission. The commission would approve the adjustments to the DWR Bond Charge as may be necessary to ensure timely recovery.... The commission would conduct hearings to establish rates to allow the DWR to recover their revenue requirements. The DWR Bond Charge shall take precedence over all other costs and disbursements to be padi from the fund and shall be paid from revenue derived from rate levels in effect on July 31, 2001. Although we could live with this legislation the issues I see are: IBM would not escape a surcharge even though they may not have caused any DWR costs. SImilarly, large San Diego customers, who have not caused any DWR costs, would be subject to a surcharge. I am having a hard time understanding what they intended to achieve with the clause ""The DWR Bond Charge shall take precedence over all other costs and disbursements to be paid from the fund and shall be paid from revenue derived 
Here is the outline of some points to make in the filing today. 
Here is the outline of some points to make in the filing today. 
Left you off of earlier e-mail. Jim 
Here is a draft of Ban Sharma's and Ursula's presentation on what California has done wrong.  I think a few people are looking for this info.  Please work with Ban to add / change, etc. so we have one document. Jim 
Jim, We made some grammar  and cosmetic changes... here is the latest version. Also, we modified the meaning of bullet three (page 3) and added appendix 1. Do you want to change the title? We will wait for your comments. Ursula 
Are you going to testify? Jim 
The Senate Energy Committee is going to hold the following informational hearing tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.: 
Here is the outline of some points to make in the filing today. 
Here is the note we sent to our CA customers this weekend to extend with Evergreen. Jim 
FYI.  Nothing amazing in their presentation, but I'd thought I'd pass it along. Jim 
FYI john_h_stout@reliantenergy.com on 10/27/2000 08:30:32 AM 
(See attached file: ERCOT Board Presentation.ppt) - ERCOT Board Presentation.ppt 
In the same Decision that the CPUC is considering voting out on suspending Direct Access, the CPUC is considering a SoCal Edison recommendation to suspend further payment of the Negative CTC to marketers. The Decision would find that the earlier Stipulation does not require SCE to make a cash payment in lieu of a bill credit (even though SCE has already paid cash in previous periods for the Negative CTC). The Decision orders SCE to not make cash payments to satisfy the Negative CTC credit. The Decision is unclear as to whether or not this is simply a suspension of payment or would be permanent. The Decision would apply the same findings and rulings to PG&E and SDG&E. The key issue is that rather than having a cash receivable, EES would now have a bill credit receivable.  In addition, because EES re-sourced its customers, the Utility account that holds the bill credit is EES, not the customer account.  The only method to obtain the economic value of the bill credit is to utilize the Utilities' services.  Even if EES physically serves the customers going forward, it may not be the same account that has the bill credit. The outcome of this case would impact our current Complaint, but it is unclear exactly how the CPUC would apply this Decision to that case. We are intending to (a) try to remove this issue from the CPUC Decision, (b) trying to clarify the suspension is not meant as a vehicle to deny us payment, and (c) trying to determine that the Utilities' tariff would allow us to be paid if our account became ""inactive"". One other option to consider (at least for SCE) would be to contact SCE management to work out a bill credit application process to allow EES to route the economic value to our DA customers. If anyone has any questions, please call me to discuss. 
The following points highlight legal/regulatory recommendations to the business team on the DA suspension issue. All intelligence indicates that the CPUC will act on this issue at its June 28, 2001 meeting (and there are sufficient votes for the decision). Existing Contracts - It is our recommendation that EES should submit any and all DASRs to initiate DA service  to the appropriate Utility no later than June 29, 2001 for all customers that have existing contracts if we want to ensure DA service. New Contracts - All new contracts should be signed by both EES and the customer no later than June 30, 2001 (July 1, 2001 is a Sunday).  DASRs for these contracts should be submitted to the appropriate Utility as soon as possible, but in no event later than July 6, 2001.  The July 6 date is our estimate of the last date the Utility would accept DASRs for new contracts. It is important to note that the CPUC is keeping the clock on contract execution timing. Switching Option - Customers that are on DA service can be returned to the Utility per the tariff process.  Once the customer has been returned to Utility service after July 1, 2001, our expectation is that there will be no ability to have this customer receive DA service in a future timeframe.  In addition, returning to Utility service may incur a ""re-entry fee"". Contract Extensions - EES should consider amending all current contracts that terminate after July 1, 2001 with a Evergreen Provision that provides for Index pricing with 30 day cancellation notice provisions.  These amendments should be signed prior to June 30, 2001.  It is possible that the CPUC will require marketers to detail the termination dates of their DA customers.  One additional thought - EES may consider having the customer assign any Negative CTC receivable to EES as compensation for the Evergreen provision (to overcome the CPUC language that indicates that the customer is due the Negative CTC credit). We intend to set up a call for 5pm Houston time today to discuss (call-in number to follow). 
Agreed.  My initial thoughts -- 1. More Government isn't the answer.  If this proves anything, it is that Government is the wrong party to manage consumer's energy price risk. 2. This is a 10 year hangover.  The total bill = $### billion. 3. Direct Access is a better solution for California.  Let businesses manage their own needs, rather than a small public agency never designed to take on this task. 4. Too much, too late.  CDWR should have been buying to manage the cost for 2001, not worrying about 2007.  Any contract that starts after Sept 2002 is simply not a part of any real solution. By the way, I think that if pressed, Enron has to be very clear - we are not advocating abrogation of contracts. Jim P.S. Jennifer will be ready to present something at the call. 
and ORN 
A note from CSFB on implications from FERC order.  No real ""new"" news for sector.  Indicates market had already priced the info into the stocks. Jim 
Jennifer Thome will be coordinating the review of CDWR's contracts beginning this morning.  If anyone has any issues that need to be considered in the review, please make sure that Jennifer understands the issues. Jennifer Fraser has volunteered someone from her team to help. We will be working with ENA Legal in Portland (through Alan Comnes) to help with the review. Please call Jennifer Thome if there are any questions.  Jennifer will provide an update on timing etc. at the end of the day. Thanks, 
Just to make sure that everyone is on the same page, Ban Sharma is working with Seabron Adamson and Sue Mara to complete the work below.  If people need any other information (or a specific presentation), please let Ban know. Thanks, Jim 
Seabron - Here is an outline of the work product we would like you to consider -- 1. How much did the LACK OF POLITICAL LEADERSHIP / LUNACY cost California consumers? + LUNACY = CPUC did not accept $60/Mwh last year + unwillingness to fix credit problems + Bad CDWR buying habits + other 2. Analyze key Cal ISO studies dealing with ""overearning"" and market abuse. + Methodological faults + Analyze Key Findings + Develop appropriate ""Enron"" responses 3. Develop framework to assist in responding to political ""calls"" for market controls + Understand better who ""won"" from the WEALTH TRANSFER + How much was transferred to ""Texas generators""? 4. Other fixes still needed + A/S markets in California + Governance issues + other? I hope this helps frame the work. Jim 
I wanted to make sure that everyone involved with the CA New Product was aware that the CPUC may consider at its next public meeting (6/14) the implementation of the Direct Access suspension established in AB1x1. We are hearing that the CPUC may not have 3 votes in favor of such suspension, but the topic is on the agenda.  It is very difficult to get any clarity on this issue given the politics and ex parte restricitions. Even if the CPUC does not take action on this language at the next meeting, until that provision of the law is modified by the General Assembly, the CPUC could take action at a later time. Please call me if anyone has any questions. Jim 
What did Enron decide? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/28/2000 07:12 PM 
FYI.  Seems like we've given the Governor quite a bit up to this point, but there may be some good reasons to, as they say, keep on giving.  Perhaps we can discuss further as part of our meeting on Monday. Best, Jeff ""Katie Kaplan"" <kaplan@iepa.com> 10/27/2000 06:20 PM Please respond to kaplan 
Greetings: IEP will be hosting a dinner for California Governor Gray Davis on Thursday, December 7, 2000 at the historic Julia Morgan House in Sacramento. We will be targeting to raise at least $100,000 so company contributions will range from $10,000-$20,000 per person ($10k minimum per person) depending on the number of respondents.  We have already received firm commitments from 3 companies. If you are interested in attending please e-mail me as soon as possible.  A formal invitation will follow to those who respond. We need responses or direction by no later than COB on Monday, October 30, 2000. Please contact me with any questions. Thank you, Katie Kaplan Manager of Policy IEP (916) 448-9499 
Can you guys look into (quietly) the perspectives of the three utilities on the FERC decision?  It would be interesting to know especially about the question of refunds? Other parties perspectives would also be helpful. Jim 
I agree with much of what Jeff has written.  Here are some additions - On FERC getting a lot right, look at the Order in relation to our 4 key points filed in the White Paper - Removing Market Transparency - Still need FERC to take action Development of Forwards Market and Risk Management - Great results Removing distortions on Prices - Wrong action Ending Cal ISO / Cal PX Stakeholder Boards - Great results On the risk management issue, FERC itself said ""The single most important remedy that California market needs is the elimination of rules that prevent market participants from managing risk"". [FERC PRESS RELEASE] ADD - FERC Staff did a great job on preparing a detailed analysis of the market issues. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 11/01/2000 01:17 PM 
Here are the messages as I understand them.  Please let me know if I've misconstrued anything.  Thanks. FERC got  a lot right in the order and we're very encouraged as a result. In particular, ending the PX buy/sell requirement and permitting utilities to manage risk through a portfolio of short and long term contracts is a fundamental step in the right direction. However, the proposed price cap is unworkable and will jeopardize realibility in California.  As structured, it will: discourage the development of new generation to serve California fail to provide adequate incentives for demand responsiveness. force Enron to abandon 300 MWs of new power projects planned for California. We look forward to participating in FERC's process and are hopeful that FERC's final order will fix the deficiencies in the current price cap proposal. We encourage California to work with FERC to implement the proposals and quickly fix the flaws in the market on behalf of the state's consumers. 
Everything that I heard was that there wasn't anything to gain by attending this dinner.  I therefore assume that we did not give the $$.  My current thoughts are that if we want to give to Gov. Davis, let's give directly. Also, are we thinking about meeting with the Gov's key energy people and legislative members to share our perspective on the FERC Order. Jim 
I think we are Enron. I personally think the answer should be we're done with political donations to the Governor for 2000.  I don't see any marginal gain for the investment. 
What did Enron decide? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/28/2000 07:12 PM 
FYI.  Seems like we've given the Governor quite a bit up to this point, but there may be some good reasons to, as they say, keep on giving.  Perhaps we can discuss further as part of our meeting on Monday. Best, Jeff ""Katie Kaplan"" <kaplan@iepa.com> 10/27/2000 06:20 PM Please respond to kaplan 
Greetings: IEP will be hosting a dinner for California Governor Gray Davis on Thursday, December 7, 2000 at the historic Julia Morgan House in Sacramento. We will be targeting to raise at least $100,000 so company contributions will range from $10,000-$20,000 per person ($10k minimum per person) depending on the number of respondents.  We have already received firm commitments from 3 companies. If you are interested in attending please e-mail me as soon as possible.  A formal invitation will follow to those who respond. We need responses or direction by no later than COB on Monday, October 30, 2000. Please contact me with any questions. Thank you, Katie Kaplan Manager of Policy IEP (916) 448-9499 
Here is a note that highlights that companies can and will take on big bloc= ks=20 of customers at good rates (20% below the historic bundled rate).  New Powe= r=20 looks like it will win or at least share in the 300,000 customers. Something to think about in CA. Jim 
PennFuture's E-cubed is a commentary biweekly email publication concerning= =20 the current themes and trends in the energy market.=20 =20 November 3, 2000 Vol. 2, No. 22 =20 Pennsylvania's First Successful CDS Auction =20 An important new regulatory skirmish has broken out before the Pennsylvania= =20 Public Utility Commission (PUC) over which company has won the right to=20 provide default generation service to 300,000 customers of PECO Energy, an= =20 Exelon Company. This skirmish is actually good news for consumers and is th= e=20 fruit of the 1998 PECO Energy restructuring settlement agreement, a landmar= k=20 document that ended a ferocious regulatory war when all combatants signed i= t.=20 =20 The =01&peace treaty=018 includes a requirement that PECO Energy bid out de= fault=20 service for 20% of its customers, and PECO has done so. Green Mountain Ener= gy=20 Company is now challenging PECO Energy=01,s decision that New Power won the= =20 auction to provide the settlement=01,s mandated default service.=20 =20 Both Green Mountain and New Power are offering those 300,000 consumers smal= l=20 rate reductions compared to customers receiving default service from PECO,= =20 and more electricity generated from renewable energy resources. Specificall= y,=20 New Power and Green Mountain are offering generation service to Rate R=20 residential customers for approximately 5.54 cents per kilowatt-hour. That= =20 offer is 3.11 cents per kilowatt-hour less than PECO Energy=01,s unbundled= =20 generation and transmission rate of 8.65 cents per kilowatt-hour and 0.11= =20 cents per kilowatt-hour less than the shopping credit of 5.65.=20 =20 The consumer savings that these offers represent is masked or reduced by th= e=20 stranded cost payments that consumers must pay PECO Energy. Indeed, were it= =20 not for stranded cost payments, the New Power and Green Mountain offers wou= ld=20 reduce total bills by about 3.11 cents per kilowatt-hour, or 20%.=20 =20 The dispute between New Power and Green Mountain is noteworthy because it= =20 proves that companies will compete vigorously to provide default service if= =20 shopping credits and lengths of contracts are set at reasonable levels. It= =20 also shows that renewable energy portfolio standards can be met economicall= y.=20 Finally, the result of this case will switch more customers to competitive= =20 suppliers in one day than the total number who switched in California over = a=20 period of nearly three years.=20 =20 When the PUC anoints New Power or Green Mountain as the winner, if all=20 299,300 consumers opt to stay with the CDS provider, the total number of=20 customers in Pennsylvania that will be served by a competitive supplier wil= l=20 jump to more than 850,000. Of this total, 504,000 will be residential=20 customers of PECO, a number equal to 37% of the PECO residential class. =20 CDS Background: In Pennsylvania, there must always be a =01&default=018 sup= plier or=20 =01&provider of last resort=018 to assure that service is always available = to all=20 customers. The incumbent utility is the default supplier, unless the PUC=20 decides otherwise. The default supplier must provide generation service to= =20 customers who do not have a competitive supplier either because they chose= =20 not to shop or did not find a willing supplier at an acceptable price. The= =20 PECO Restructuring Case Settlement initially defined CDS service in paragra= ph=20 38: =20 =01&On January 1, 2001, 20% of all of PECO=01,s residential customers -- de= termined=20 by random selection, including low-income and inability-to-pay customers, a= nd=20 without regard to whether such customers are obtaining generation service= =20 from an EGS -- shall be assigned to a provider of last resort-default=20 supplier other than PECO that will be selected on the basis of a=20 Commission-approved energy and capacity market price bidding process. This= =20 service shall be referred to as Competitive Default Service (=01&CDS=018).= =018 =20 The same approach was used in the other Settlements in the GPU, PPL and APS= =20 restructuring cases. CDS reflects an effort to assure that there is at leas= t=20 one other large competitor in each market. CDS also has a renewable portfol= io=20 standard (RPS), even though there is no RPS for regulated utilities in=20 Pennsylvania. The winning bidder must supply:=20 =20 =01&=01(2.0% of its offered energy supply for CDS service from renewable re= sources=20 of solar, wind, sustainable biomass (including landfill gas but excluding= =20 incineration of Municipal Solid Waste), geothermal or ocean power. The=20 renewable energy increment shall increase by annual increments of 0.5%=20 thereafter.=018 =20 This increasing renewable requirement continues indefinitely, meaning that = in=20 year four of the CDS there will be a 3.5% renewable requirement, 4% in year= =20 five and so on. This is significant, as each extra percent of renewable=20 energy used to serve the 299,300 customer block prevents approximately 950= =20 tons of NOx, 3200 tons of SO2, and 390,000 tons of CO2 from being emitted b= y=20 fossil fuel burning power plants. =20 PECO=01,s CDS RFP: Importantly, the PECO/Unicom merger case modified the CD= S=20 bidding process as established by the 1998 settlement. Of particular note,= =20 the revisions eliminated the =01&customer care=018 functions from CDS, made= the=20 contract three years long to help spread out return of start-up costs, and= =20 instituted several rounds of selection in the event that prior efforts=20 yielded no successful CDS contract.=20 =20 PECO issued its initial RFP for CDS on April 6, 2000, and Shell Energy=20 Services submitted the only bid. However, the PUC rejected the bid as=20 non-conforming and denied Shell=01,s Petition for Reconsideration of its=20 decision. Pursuant to the modifications in the merger settlement, PECO=20 entered into bilateral negotiations based on an August 24, 2000 RFP.=20 =20 Three suppliers submitted conforming bids, and PECO selected New Power as t= he=20 winner on October 18, 2000. New Power is the new competitive supplier=20 actively marketing residential and small commercial customers in the PECO= =20 service territory and is backed by Enron, AOL, and IBM.=20 =20 PECO and New Power negotiated a complete contract that is before the PUC fo= r=20 approval on November 9, 2000. Under the proposal, PECO and New Power expand= ed=20 the size of the CDS requirement to include 22% (299,300) of non-shopping=20 residential customers instead of 20% of all residential customers, whether= =20 shopping or not. This change was designed to implement paragraph 39 of the= =20 Restructuring Settlement, requiring adjustments to the numbers assigned to= =20 CDS in order to have 35% of all PECO residential and commercial customers= =20 obtaining competitive generation as of January 1, 2001. There also will be = a=20 second round of assignment of non-shopping customers as of October 15, 2002= =20 if New Power is providing CDS to fewer than 20% of all PECO residential=20 customers =20 New Power electricity will be 2% renewable in 2001, 2.5% renewable in 2002,= =20 and 3% renewable in 2003 as required, but does not include a commitment to= =20 exceed the requirements or provide cleaner power for the non-renewable=20 portion of the product.=20 =20 The price for New Power=01,s CDS for Rate R customers would be 2.02% below = the=20 shopping credit, while residential heating customers on Rate RH would pay= =20 1.02% less than their shopping credit. For a Rate R customer, this would me= an=20 that overall rates would fall .8% (as energy and transmission falls from 5.= 65=20 to 5.54); for Rate RH rates would fall .44%. Customers assigned to CDS may= =20 still choose any competitive supplier, or opt out and retain default servic= e=20 from PECO without penalty or charge. New Power will be able to offer its fu= ll=20 slate of energy and non-energy related products to these customers. =20 Green Mountain asserts that approval of the PECO/New Power contract is =01&= not=20 in the public interest,=018 arguing that PECO ignored Green Mountain=01,s o= ffer=20 that included CDS pricing 2% below the shopping credit for all residential= =20 customers, including those on residential heating or off-peak service. Like= =20 the New Power proposal, the Green Mountain proposal would lower Rate R and = RH=20 rates .8% and .44%, respectively. Green Mountain asserts that the New Power= =20 rate cut for Rate R is only 1.83%, and not 2% and argues that its product i= s=20 better for the environment because the non-renewable portion of the product= =20 would come from natural gas and hydro instead of system power generated=20 primarily from coal and nuclear fuels. If not declared the winning bidder,= =20 Green Mountain proposes in the alternative that both they and New Power=20 receive CDS contracts. =20 In response, PECO states that all three bidders had the opportunity to subm= it=20 revised bids and that the Green Mountain revised bid was not submitted unti= l=20 October 12, 2000, 13 days after the deadline and nine days after the=20 selection of New Power as the winning bidder.=20 =20 The PUC will sort out the facts and arguments on November 9. Some think tha= t=20 the PUC may very well split the 300,000 customer block between Green Mounta= in=20 and New Power.=20 =20 Whatever the result, customers in the Philadelphia area should receive yet= =20 another small price reduction, more renewable energy, and the opportunity f= or=20 a more competitive electricity market.=20 E-cubed is available for reprint in newspapers and other publications.=20 Authors are available for print or broadcast.=20 Support E-cubed by becoming a member of PennFuture =01* visit our secure on= line=20 membership page at www.pennfuture.org by clicking on =01&Support Our Work.= =018 =20 PennFuture, with offices in Harrisburg, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, is a= =20 statewide public interest membership organization, which advances policies = to=20 protect and improve the state=01,s environment and economy. PennFuture=01,s= =20 activities include litigating cases before regulatory bodies and in local,= =20 state and federal courts, advocating and advancing legislative action on a= =20 state and federal level, public education and assisting citizens in public= =20 advocacy.=20 =20 We hope you found this informative and interesting. However, if you would= =20 prefer not to receive future issues, please reply to this email and type=20 
The way that I see it, the Rod Wright issues that are important the following -- everything else is either jurisdictionally questionable or can't fly on its own weight. 1. Reduce environmental roadblocks to bring more plants on line. WHY ARE WE ATTACKING THE ENVIRONMENT?  ANY PROBLEM IS A PROBLEM. 6. Provide IOU's with price management tools including bilateral contract and hedging authority. GREAT FOR EPMI SOLUTIONS. 15. Extend the rate freeze for PG&E and SCE beyond 3/2002 NEED FOR EES BOOK.   ALSO NEED THIS TO END THE RADICAL CALLS TO ""FIX"" THE WHOLESALE MARKETS WITH WHOLESALE MARKET PRICE CAPS. 19. Repayment of under collections for PG&E and SCE. OTHERWISE NOTHING ELSE WILL HAPPEN BECAUSE WE'LL BE FIGHTING ABOUT THIS ALL SESSION. 27. Utilities are deemed prudent in forward contracting. NEED THIS FOR EPMI DEALS. 28. Manage volatility for residential customers through OREGON solution. OR THROUGH DEFAULT SERVICE COMPETITION.  A MUST HAVE FOR POLITICIANS.  REAL QUESTION IS CAN THEY RAISE THE RATES A LITTLE TO MANAGE THE HIGHER COSTS AT 
Joe, etal -- Given the current state of regulatory risk selling into the CA markets, is there any way to move FERC to expedite a process wherein they would ""predetermine"" the information necessary to demonstrate our reasonableness (both for under $150/Mwh and over $150/Mwh)? It seems to me that an Enron only filing will not motivate FERC to act, but rather we need WPTF and EPSA (others?) to sign-on to our request for rapid treatment. At a minimum, I need to know the broad outlines of such a filing and the procedural steps for this filing by end of business today. Also, can we canvas EPSA (Julie Simon) and WPTF (??) to see if any other members are thinking about responding to this issue through the trade associations. This is very critical of the desk. Jim 
It is my understanding that this letter will be sent to the CPUC today.  I don't have any reservations with the content or format. Jim 
Please let either Gary or me know your thoughts and comments regarding the below draft letter to the CPUC. Thanks, Peter > PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL > ATTORNEY CLIENT COMMUNICATION > ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT > > > > Harvey Morris Esq. > California Public Utilities Commission > 505 Public Utilities Commission > San Francisco, California   94102 > >  Re:   I.00-08-002  Subpoenas Served on Enron Power Marketing, Inc. > (""EPMI""), Enron Energy Services Operations Inc. and Enron Energy Services > Inc. (collectively referred to as ""EES""), Enron Energy Marketing > Corporation (""EEMC""), and Portland General Electric Corporation (""Portland > General"")(collectively sometimes referred to as the ""Enron Entities"") > > Harvey, > >  I am writing in response to the various voicemail exchanges and > phone calls between Michael Day, on behalf of the Enron Entities, and > yourself during the past few weeks.  Here is the current status as we > understand it.  Based upon the agreements we reached between October 6, > 2000 and October 18, 2000 (date of your confirming email) the Enron > Entities have made the following document productions in response to the > subpoenas served by California Public Utilities Commission (the > ""Commission""): > > * October 13, 2000  Bate Nos. Enron Entities 000001-000025 on behalf > of all Enron Entities Responsive to Request Nos. 1-11, 20. > > * October 27, 2000 Bate Nos. P000001-002115 on behalf of Portland > General Responsive to Request Nos. 12, 14, 16 and 18. > > * November 14, 2000 Bate No. Enron Entities 000026 (Diskette with > EES/EEMC retail data) Responsive to Request Nos. 7 to 11, 13, 15 to 17, > and 19. > > * November 15, 2000 Bate No. P002116-002117 (Diskettes with Portland > General Data, which include approximate 355,000 wholesale transactions) > Responsive to Request Nos. 7 to 11, 13 to 17, and 19. > > We believe with these productions, we have complied with the October > 6-18th agreement with respect to Portland General and EES/EEMC.  As you > know, these productions were all made reserving the Enron Entities rights > to object or challenge the subpoenas and reserving any claims, defenses, > objections, jurisdictional or otherwise, or other responses. > >  We originally had hoped to have all of the Transactional Data for > EPMI, as defined in our October 6th email, available for production by > October 27th.  However, we were also mindful of your expressed expectation > that any data provided be useful and reliable.  The collection of data you > requested in the subpoenas is neither kept electronically in the same > location nor organized as you requested it.  In fact during our review of > some of the data we found significant errors that called into question the > methodology by which the data was extracted from existing information. > When it became apparent that we could not accurately estimate how long it > would take to get reliable data given the volume of transactions involved, > we informed you of the problem.  We now understand that if we cannot give > you a firm date when the balance of the Transactional Data will be > available, the Commission believes it will have no choice but to seek to > compel production before the Federal Regulatory Energy Commission > (""FERC"").  We understand the pressure that you must be under to get data > immediately, but we cannot, at this time, give you another date in the > immediate future by which we are certain that we will be able to produce > accurate data. > >  Moreover, during the iterim between October 18th and today, a number > of significant events have occurred that we believe bear on the subpoenas > served on the Enron entities.  First, we understand that many other > parties who were served with the same subpoenas have not provided the > detailed information requested and have objected on a variety of very > sound legal grounds.  Second, the Commission itself has, without a hearing > on the motion, unilaterally revised the proposed protective order that is > supposed to govern these productions and summarily denied other changes > sought by other parties served.  Third, the Commission has filed its > motion before FERC seeking an order compelling the production of the data > from those other parties that have objected and seeking an expedited > hearing and production schedule.  We note that the reasons stated in the > motion before FERC as the basis for the production are materially > different than the reasons originally stated in the ex parte application > to the Commission's own Administrative Law Judge who issued the subpoenas. > Finally, FERC itself has completed its investigation and has issued a > tentative order as of November 1, 2000. > >  Originally, the Enron Entities had been prepared to accept ""most > favored nation"" treatment with respect to protective orders and requests > by others to limit the scope of the subpoenas and produce information that > was available.  However, given both the Commission's stated urgent need > for an immediate answer that EPMI cannot in good faith give despite > substantial effort (date for production of reliable and accurate > Transaction Data) and the uncertainty created by the above described > intervening events, EPMI believes it has no choice but to serve its formal > objections and responses to the subpoenas and await the Commission's > threatened motion to compel before FERC. > >  We also understand from our discussions with you that the Commission > has created various lists or categories for the entities that have been > served with subpoenas.  We understand that there is a list for those > entities that have been cooperating, a list for those who have been > delaying and a list for those who have been objecting and exercising their > rights to challenge the subpoenas.  We understand that the Commission > intends to punish, by whatever means it has available, those entities that > object and exercise their rights to challenge the subpoenas.  We deplore > these tactics, but despite all of the efforts to cooperate described > above, we understand that EPMI may in fact be moved from the cooperating > list to the group to be punished for exercising its rights. > >  If you have and questions or comments, please do not hesitate to > contact me. > >         Sincerely, > > > >         Gary S. > Fergus ======================================================= This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@brobeck.com BROBECK PHLEGER & HARRISON LLP http://www.brobeck.com 
FYI.  I don't have a problem with this. Joe, who should  work with Christian to make sure that the details are ""sufficient""? Jim 
Yesterday, we (Tim Belden, Greg Wolfe, Steve Hall , John Forney,  and a new regulatory person whose name I apologize for not remembering)  had a meeting to decide what practical legal steps we should take to mitigate any refund risk, particularly the risk of selling power above the price cap.  The result of the meeting was a decision  to (i) attempt on a case by case basis  to get our services customers to acknowledge,  in writing,  terms of allocating at least some of the  responsibility for price refunds, and (ii) create  a way to document our cost justification where we sell above the cap,  which will allow us to begin making the requisite filings to the FERC in January. If  you  see  any compelling,   big picture reason(s)  for concern with the 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Alan -- Here are my comments with redline.  Some formatting and some changes. Thanks. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 11/21/2000 09:09 PM 
Here's the latest.   If you make comments, please make them on this version. Fax comments to BOTH 530-327-9235 (yes, ""530"")  and 503-464-3740 or email the comments to AComnes@enron.com with redline/strikout turned on. Kim Curry, please take a formatting pass if you can first thing Wed and email back to me when done. Alan Comnes 
Alan -- Some other thoughts: 1. Are we sure that we have the permission from the SC customers that we can give out their information?  Someone may want to get the names of these parties and more details. 2. Should we move the market power section to the third point and bring up points 2 and 3? Thanks. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 11/21/2000 09:09 PM 
Here's the latest.   If you make comments, please make them on this version. Fax comments to BOTH 530-327-9235 (yes, ""530"")  and 503-464-3740 or email the comments to AComnes@enron.com with redline/strikout turned on. Kim Curry, please take a formatting pass if you can first thing Wed and email back to me when done. Alan Comnes 
----- Message from ""Tracey Bradley"" <tbradley@bracepatt.com> on Wed, 22 Nov 2000 08:52:22 -0600 ----- 
U.S. energy sec says FERC proposals not enough-WSJ NEW YORK, Nov 22 (Reuters) - U.S. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson will propose on Wednesday stricter bidding rules in California's energy auction market and a broader investigation of market abuse, the Wall Street Journal reported in its electronic edition Wednesday. The paper reported Richardson as saying fixes proposed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for the troubled California electricity market stopped short of what was needed to control runaway prices. Earlier this month FERC issued a plan designed to reform California's deregulated power market after prices soared to record levels this year, sparking a public outcry. On Tuesday, the California Public Utilities Commission on voted to ask federal regulators to impose price caps on the state's wholesale power market. The state regulator also said in a statement it is to make a filing with FERC on Wednesday arguing FERC's proposed remedies for the state's troubled power market were inadequate to protect consumers. Richardson is offering to be a mediator, and says he wants to end fierce bickering between federal and state officials over who is to blame for dozens of electrical emergencies this year, the newspaper said. The energy secretary said he thinks the FERC, which regulates wholesale U.S. energy markets, needed to investigate allegations of market abuse more aggressively, utilising its subpoena powers, the paper added. New York Newsroom (212) 859-1700 
As I've been thinking about our response today, I would like Enron to focus on making sure that the California (WSCC) markets are as good a possible for business over the next 15 to 24 months.  Following that idea, I think that the key points are (1) clarifying/raising the soft cap and (2) reducing the burden/risk of the prospective refund period. I know that we had discussed leading off with the debate over market power / retroactive refunds, but I think that (a) FERC is not inclined to do much more on this issue, (b) FERC wants to fix the market as much as it can given the current political realities, and (c) if retroactive refunds become an issue, we still have our full compliment of resources to later fight this fight. I would recommend that the pleading and Alan's testimony be modified to bring these issues to the top of the ticket.   We should still include all of our other arguments. Finally, I want to make sure that Enron is taking the right position by quietly supporting a $250/Mwh soft cap with safe harbor fixes?  Sue Mara, can you please try and find out what EPSA, IEPCA, and WPTF are going to file?  I want to make sure that we are in the ball park on this issue but not getting too soft. Jim 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Ron -- I would not use the word ""hard"" in the language.  How about -- In addition, if the Commission insists on a cap it must at a minimum establish a higher hard price cap and provide that the refund obligation will not be applicable to sales below that   a reasonable level.  Such a safe harbor is required to prevent disincentives to the development of new generation and to ensure liquidity and reliability in the California market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/22/2000 02:54 PM 
This is my last edit. I.    Market Designs B. Paragraph 3 - Should be rewritten as follows: In sum, the Commission's proposal for a soft cap, combined with the complex nature of the reporting requirement and refund potential has introduced substantial uncertainty in the market and therefore substantial risk of and disincentive to do business in the California market.  To ensure participation, the Commission needs to create clear, uncomplicated review standards.  In addition, if the Commission insists on a cap it must at a minimum establish a higher hard price cap and provide that the refund obligation will not be applicable to sales below that level.  Such a safe harbor is required to prevent disincentives to the development of new generation and to ensure liquidity and reliability in the California market. 
I. Market Design A. Delete the clause beginning ""at a minimum ...."" from the title. 
Who is taking the lead on responding to these Filings?  Will EPMI and EES need to file separately from IEP, EPSA, and/or WPTF? Thanks. 
I am not completely convinced that our attendence would be constructive. First, I assume that we can enter testimony into the docket without being a witness at this hearing.  Second, the way the hearing has two groups (a) good guys with facts finding the guilty and (b) the apologists for the guilty makes it difficult for me to know which panel I would recommend that we join.   Our message doesn't seek to find blame just solutions.  Finally, given the upcoming FERC hearing, why not make our case in that process where I think the witch hunt mentality won't be so high? I can be persuaded otherwise on this case.   Either way, however, my assumption is that we need to work toward getting FERC informed and ready to do the right thing and manage the CPUC and other CA issues to do no harm. Jim Jeff Dasovich 09/05/2000 03:33 PM 
Given that the hearing is Friday, we'll need to decide pretty quickly. Might be useful to discuss on a call first thing tomorrow AM?  We'll want to assure that our message is tracks consistently with message J. Skilling will be delivering this week and with other messages we'llbe delivering (e.g., FERC inquiry).  Also, attached are some messages that Jim distributed following a focus group conducted in Orange County. Mona L Petrochko 09/05/2000 03:14 PM 
I spoke w/ Bill Julian, Cmmr. Wood's Advisor, about the hearing that is being held on Friday, September 8 in San Diego.  There will be a morning panel and an afternoon panel.  The morning panel will discuss ""pricing behavior/patterns"" and the afternoon panel will provide explanations/refutations of the morning presentations.  I'm not sure yet who will be speaking, but I have inquired from Steve Weisman, who appears to be heading this effort. Do we want an Enron representative on the panel?  Who would be the best witness? While this investigation has the opportunity to turn into a witch hunt, I am also concerned about the record being developed in such a way as to lead to the conclusion that Wood, or the legislature, have in mind.  This could mean an attempt by the Commission to assert more regulation in the market, assert more state (vs. federal) jurisdiction, build a case for collapsing the ISO/PX into one organization, or hang blame on generators and scheduling coordinators. I think Tim and Mary's presentation would be very effective in showing the other (real) side of the story. The following is an exerpt from the pre-hearing conference transcript held on 8/28 from Cmmr Wood: 27               I am not going to sit here and say that it's not 28    an appropriate time to assign blame.  If there has been 1    wrongdoing, we will assign blame.  We will ferret out the 2    wrongdoers, and we will bring them to account to the 3    greatest of our ability. 4               But I think that, as Judge Wetzell pointed out, 5    the scope of this proceeding is quite broad.  We are not 6    only addressing the immediate issues, but we are also 7    addressing the underlying problems of this market which 8    clearly is not functioning, which clearly is broken. 9               We have to look at problems with the structure of 10    the market, we have to look at problems with the behavior of 11    market participants; and getting beyond the wholesale 12    market, we have to look at the interaction with the retail 13    market because, after all, that's where the pain actually 14    occurs.  That's what consumers themselves face. 15               There are probably implications for the long-term 16    viability of California's utilities that are connected with 17    this proceeding, and we have to get into that.  And for that 18    reason, as well as the fact that the other utilities in 19    California are going to be coming out of the rate freeze at 20    some point in the future, we have to consider the statewide 21    implications of what we're doing. 22               So this is not just the San Diego proceeding, 23    although we are focused on events here in the San Diego 24    area. Mona L Petrochko 08/30/2000 03:51 PM 
Wood, the Assigned Commissioner in the investigation of wholesale electric markets, has asked for comments on the following questions by Friday, September 8.  We are an individual party to the case as well as a member of ARM and WPTF. This would be a good opportunity to get our version of what is wrong on the record.  The presentation that Tim and Mary put together for FERC will be helpful in answering these questions.  I will take a first cut at drafting response to be circulated by Tuesday of next week.  We can take liberties in providing responses that go beyond the question asked. Market Structure: Are the market conditions currently being experienced (price spikes and suppy shortages) inevitable under the current market structure? Do generators and/or scheduling coordinators have market power? Is there a need to mitigate such market power? Which market participants or other entities are responsible for reliability planning? Do California regulatory agencies have adequate jurisdiction to ensure reasonable prices and reliable service? Do the structures and governance of the Cal ISO and PX adequately support the goals of providing reasonably priced and reliable service? Market Rules: Are there rules which allow or encourage unacceptable market outcomes? What roles, if any, do underscheduling in forward markets, out of state transfers, uniform PX auction prices and ISO real-time and out-of-market purchases play in the outcomes being experienced? Behavior of Market Participants: What is working and not working in terms of price, reliability, information exchange, resource distribution, equity, service quality, and types of planned generation? 
Sarah -- Looks fine.  Did Craig Roach contribute? I wonder if we should highlight the Interconnection problems we are having with new generation?  I know that most of the delays are Siting related, but it is unclear to me if the ISO or the local utility is the right point of contact.  This would help us nationally and gives FERC an ""answer"" - enforce your Interconnection policies!! Also, this doesn't mention any possible market flaws.  Do we think that some exist?  Are any of the AS markets manipulated?  EPSA needs to make sure that it takes an honest approach to this situation or its credibility will be destroyed.  Has Craig Roach looked into this? Jim Sarah Novosel@ENRON 09/05/2000 02:39 PM 
Here is EPSA's ""Fact Sheet"" on California.  We're discussing it at the EPSA power marketers' weekly conference call tomorrow.  We're also considering having EPSA submit this Fact Sheet to the CPUC  in response to the data requests sent by the CPUC (responses are due on Friday).  If you have any comments or suggested changes, please let me know (as soon as possible) in case EPSA submits this paper to the CPUC. Thanks Sarah 
MEMORANDUM TO: Regulatory Affairs Committee Power Marketing Working Group FROM: Donald Santa, Regulatory Affairs Committee Chair Joe Hartsoe, Power Marketing Working Group Chair Julie Simon, Vice President of Policy DATE: August 30, 2000 
Thane -- We now have enough information for the wholesale deal into SDG&E.  What I want is to mimic the legislation for R, Small C, and Street Lighting.  Can you put together the tenor and rates so we can match? Jim 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Chris -- I am not too optimistic that we are going to get either the CPUC or the California Legislature to provide for competitive default supply.   I don't think that the utilities would want it nor do I think that with all of the other problems in California this will occur within the next 12 months. The best chance is simply to get the utilities to recognize (as the call from SCE appears to indicate) that there is price risk with their residual load and to seek to forward contract.  We are working (and I think that there is a strong sentiment amongst most California electricity wonks) to remove any barriers to utilities contracting forward.  This should put EPMI on a level footing to compete to manage the UDCs price risk with other people in the industry. Government Affairs met today in SF to discuss our goals for the upcoming Legislative session (which promises to be very interesting).  Competitive default supply is on the agenda, but I would put it behind utility forward contracting on the list of priorities. Jim Chris H Foster@ECT 11/30/2000 11:30 AM 
Jill Horswell, the head of trading at SCE, just called.  She said the CEO of SCE asked her to call around and see if energy marketing companies would be interested in offering the ""Duke SDG&E Structure,"" (i.e full requirements at $60/MWhr) to SCE.  I told her that that would be a big bite for anyone, and that the price would be well north of $60, but we would be interested in coming up with a structure for their consideration if they wanted to take this a step further. We decided in the case of SDG&E that we didn't have an interest in a true full requirements deal given the size (3,000 MW) and the difficulty in managing the load fluctuations, credit risks, etc.  The size and scope of a similar deal with SCE (20,000 MW) would be even more daunting. Is this an opportunity to propose a new market structure for serving load to try to build part of the solution to California's energy woes?  How should the default provider be determined?  How can credit and load fluctuation risks be managed?  Can we build a consortium of market support amongst our fellow defendants (i.e Duke, Southern, et al)? Let me know what you think. Chris 
Alan - My read of the report is that the MSC wants a 2 year fixed price (establish= ed=20 by some administrative procedure that works off of the natural gas index) f= or=20 small commercial and residential retail customers and then they want to for= ce=20 all suppliers (SCs) that participated in the Cal ISO market in 1999 to meet= =20 this physical and financial obligation [isn't that a taking?]. =20 They only want the fixed price for 2 years because they want to capture the= =20 downside opportunity in later years (real generous). It seems that the same result could be had if the UDCs contracted forward f= or=20 80% of their small commercial and residential with people like us (or DENA = in=20 SDG&Es case). =20 I don't know if we need to respond directly.  We may want to understand wha= t=20 type of obligation this would put on EPMI and EES (how many Mwh) for 2 year= s=20 and try and figure out what our mandatory sales price would be under their= =20 model? Give me a call. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/04/2000 12:36 PM =20 
All: I just downloaded the attached from the ISO's website.  It is dated 12/1/00= . =20 To boil it down, the MSC comes down against ""soft"" caps and recommends the= =20 ""get market-based rates in return for selling forward"" proposal that the IS= O=20 staff is pushing.  Forward contracts would need to at rates that=20 ""approximate"" competitive prices.  Based on my quick read that does not mea= n=20 market prices; it means somthing more akin to cost of service.  MSC also=20 wants there to be a penalty on generators for underscheduling.  They also= =20 claim there proposal will not exacerbate reliability problems. I would be interested in people's opinion if Enron should be responding to= =20 this report.  Given the date of the report, I am not sure if/how the ISO=20 would file this at the FERC. G. Alan Comnes (GAC) Here's the list of recommendations from the report. (1) The PX =01&must-buy=018 requirement would become a =01&must-schedule=01= 8 requirement.=20 IOUs would be required to schedule all forward energy through the PX, but would = be=20 free to purchase it from any source. (2) California generators and entities that sell to any California purchase= r=20 (not limited to the PX and ISO) could continue to be eligible for market-based rates (and would= =20 be free of refund obligations) only if they offer a substantial portion of their sales= =20 in the form of two-year contracts at rates that approximate competitive prices. The detail= s=20 of such a proposal are outlined in this report. The volume offered by sellers, in the= =20 aggregate, would be sufficient to cover the all three IOUs=01, residential and small= =20 commercial customer load using an average load profile for weekdays and weekends for= =20 each month. (3) Any market participant that does not offer these two-year=20 market-power-mitigation forward contracts would be subject to cost-of-service rates for all of thei= r=20 sales of energy and ancillary services into the California market for at least the two-year= =20 market power mitigation period. (4) The CPUC would be encouraged to set a default rate for IOU residential= =20 and small commercial customers based on projected wholesale energy costs under the=20 2-year contracts described above. (5) The under-scheduling penalty should be even-handed. The MSC recommends = a=20 real-time trading charge that is applicable both to load and generation and, more=20 important, does not distinguish between instructed and uninstructed deviations from schedul= e. 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
FYI.  Not sure if you had seen this.  Hogan makes many of the arguments about the BB&W study that you made. His other interesting conclusion is that operating reserve policies that obligate ISOs to pay up to infinity may be nonsensical.  Not sure if Enron wants to take a position on this thought. Jim 
Having read the Hogan paper, I think that the ""academic"" community is somewhat divided on this issue.  If we want to move forward on the issues Joskow addresses, I would recommend that EPSA be the vehicle.  The entire marketer / generator community needs to counter. What do people think about seeking activity through EPSA, WPTF, and/or IEP of CA  to push back on the studies and analysis especially after the Dec 13 Order?  I don't think that the discussions will be ending very soon. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/07/2000 03:07 AM 
The Joskow/Kahn paper raises two issues:  price above cost  and witholding. Enron obviously has concerns with the ""price above cost"" analysis.  I drafted some specific concerns and put them into a draft to Enron's reponse to Hoeker Question 1.  Although the detail was dropped in the final draft, the basic technical concerns were laid out there. To really rebut Joskow/Kahn would take considerable work.  Jeff D's idea was to write a paper that raised issues and indicated how complicated a ""correct"" response would  be. The Joskow/Kahn withholding section has recieved criticism from the ISO so I am not sure Enron needs to respond to that. I think my bottom line now is that the debate at FERC will soon be over or enter a new stage on the 13th.  As far as how a response would help us in California, I think requires a discussion with Jeff. Alan 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Having read the Hogan paper, I think that the ""academic"" community is somewhat divided on this issue.  If we want to move forward on the issues Joskow addresses, I would recommend that EPSA be the vehicle.  The entire marketer / generator community needs to counter. What do people think about seeking activity through EPSA, WPTF, and/or IEP of CA  to push back on the studies and analysis especially after the Dec 13 Order?  I don't think that the discussions will be ending very soon. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/07/2000 03:07 AM 
The Joskow/Kahn paper raises two issues:  price above cost  and witholding. Enron obviously has concerns with the ""price above cost"" analysis.  I drafted some specific concerns and put them into a draft to Enron's reponse to Hoeker Question 1.  Although the detail was dropped in the final draft, the basic technical concerns were laid out there. To really rebut Joskow/Kahn would take considerable work.  Jeff D's idea was to write a paper that raised issues and indicated how complicated a ""correct"" response would  be. The Joskow/Kahn withholding section has recieved criticism from the ISO so I am not sure Enron needs to respond to that. I think my bottom line now is that the debate at FERC will soon be over or enter a new stage on the 13th.  As far as how a response would help us in California, I think requires a discussion with Jeff. Alan 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
Mary -- Can you make sure that the EES is looped in to the call?  Neil, I've heard that FERC may move the meeting to Friday. Jim 
Will you make sure we are in the loop with the FERC meeting on the 13th ?  We may want our own log in down here on the desk. Can you let us know how that is done and what the cost is. Thanks 
I still think that Enron shouldn't be the lead.  We need the industry to respond.  Hartsoe doesn't think that EPSA will be interested in spending the $. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 12/11/2000 11:59 AM 
Sounds very good. Might be useful to get a ""reputable"" economist to write a paper that 1) describes traditional means for defining, identifying and mitigating market power, 2) compares those with the ""new"" means folks are coming up with these days,  and 3) comments on the ""split"" in the academic community over the issues. When Steve Kean and I discussed the notion initially, thought it might be a good idea to gently ""pile on"" to the public discussion with the goal of making clear 1) just how complex this issue is and 2) how important it will be to have a thorough analysis (say, about 12+ months worth?) before rushing to judgment on anything Joskow might allege in his paper.  Thoughts? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 12/11/2000 10:02 AM 
Having read the Hogan paper, I think that the ""academic"" community is somewhat divided on this issue.  If we want to move forward on the issues Joskow addresses, I would recommend that EPSA be the vehicle.  The entire marketer / generator community needs to counter. What do people think about seeking activity through EPSA, WPTF, and/or IEP of CA  to push back on the studies and analysis especially after the Dec 13 Order?  I don't think that the discussions will be ending very soon. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 12/07/2000 03:07 AM 
The Joskow/Kahn paper raises two issues:  price above cost  and witholding. Enron obviously has concerns with the ""price above cost"" analysis.  I drafted some specific concerns and put them into a draft to Enron's reponse to Hoeker Question 1.  Although the detail was dropped in the final draft, the basic technical concerns were laid out there. To really rebut Joskow/Kahn would take considerable work.  Jeff D's idea was to write a paper that raised issues and indicated how complicated a ""correct"" response would  be. The Joskow/Kahn withholding section has recieved criticism from the ISO so I am not sure Enron needs to respond to that. I think my bottom line now is that the debate at FERC will soon be over or enter a new stage on the 13th.  As far as how a response would help us in California, I think requires a discussion with Jeff. Alan 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 
FYI. In bizarre times, help can sometimes come from bizarre places.  Granted, we're likely to disagree strongly with Hogan's continued obsession with Poolco, but the discussion in his paper regarding market power may be helpful---I've read the Joskow paper, but haven't yet had a chance to review the Hogan piece. Steve and I discussed the need to do a focused assessment of the Joskow/Kahn ""analysis""  (remember it's Ed Kahn, not Alfred Kahn).  Seems that it would be very useful to fold into that analysis any useful stuff on market power included in the paper done by Hogan & Co.  If, in the end, there ain't nothing useful, so be it.  But seems like there's little downside to exploring it. Jim, my understanding is that Alan is already working with the fundamentals folks on the Portland desk to deconstruct the Joskow paper.  Might want to include the Hogan paper in those discussions and might also be useful to pull Seabron Adamson into the thinking, too.  Ultimately, may be preferable to have any assessment of Joskow and/or Hogan to come from economists, rather than directly from us. Best, Jeff 
Has FERC Gone Far Enough in California? The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission isn't going far enough in its attempt to reform the California wholesale electric market, according to a paper by three prominent economists done for San Diego Gas and Electric. The paper by John D. Chandley, Scott M. Harvey, and William W. Hogan argues that FERC should first end the artificial separation that divides the California Power Exchange and the California Independent System Operator, rather than worrying about the governance of the two institutions. ""The change in governance may help,"" says the paper - ""Electricity Market Reform in California"" - ""but it is not likely to be decisive in the near term. Explicit guidance from the commission regarding the nature and trajectory of reforms will be essential if market reform is to be accomplished within an acceptable time frame."" Hogan, of the Kennedy School of Government, has been writing since 1995 in opposition to California's market separation. Also, argues the paper, freeing the California utilities to engage in forward contracting is no panacea. ""The expectation that merely allowing utilities to participate in forward contracting necessarily would be the solution to high 
FYI.  Not sure who (if anyone) is responding. Jim 
The ISO is proposing to file the attached DG tariff provision with FERC.  I assume you are all over this(?) 
I think that we should call her on Friday.  Can you do this Jeff? Jim 
Given that we are already well into the Summer of '01, it now appears that further CDWR contracting will only lock CA into high prices.  The original idea was that CDWR could buy power at $80/mwh and ensure that retail rates wouldn't go higher.  Neither of these concepts have held true. I think that Enron needs to consider actively oppossing any further contracting and a bond issuance in light of the potential harm that CDWR will do.  First, the prices they are getting won't be great for customers. Second, with the ""new"" stranded costs that will be created, direct access in the future won't have a chance. Appreciate everyone's thoughts? 
Jeff -- Check this out.  Jim 
Guys and Gals -- Commercial wants our opinion (in fact they want us to contact the CPUC and legislative members) to gauge the ""true"" meaning of the DA bypass of the 3c/kwh Surcharge.  This question basically has arisen because there is a customer that we may not re-DASR if the Surcharge bypass extends in perpetuity (or if at least is there a Window of Opportunity that keeps customers from paying).  Put in other words, would anyone give us a ""free pass"" if we move load to DA right now and promise to keep them there with no ability to return to electric utility service? My current analysis looks something like this -- The term ""Surcharge"" is only applicable until the end of the AB1890 rate freeze (which will end no later than March.1.02 and may end earlier if (a) federal court finds in PG&E/SCE favor or (b) California legislature mandates an earlier end-date.  Surcharge is a ""term of art"" to get around the problems of the AB1890 rate freeze. At the end of the AB1890 rate freeze, it is my understanding that the CPUC will modify fully the rate structure and level to ensure full cost recovery on a going forward basis (therefore Utility Retained Generation, QF expense, CDWR current expenses (both energy purchase and financing costs will be included). Other outstanding costs will include (1) Utility Undercollection from May.00 until when no additional CA-ISO costs are applied) and (2) CDWR costs beginning Jan.17.01 until the end of AB1890 rate freeze new rates. Understanding how these costs will be recovered and by whom will most likely (70%) be decided by the Legislature with some decision-making by the CPUC. Utility Undercollection Bypass - 25% CDWR Jan.17.01 thru AB1890 end Bypass - 80% for people who never were on Utility Service, 10% for people who used Utility Service post Jan.17.01 CDWR Net Unavoidable Bypass - 10% for people who used Utility Service post Jan.17.01, 80% for others. LEGISLATION IMPACTING THIS DECISION There are three key direct access bills being considered (the Bowen bill - SB2x27, the Kelley bill - AB2x42, and the Battin bill - SB2x??). The Bowen bill would remove the DA suspension authority granted in AB1x1 and replace it with the following (1) if a customer has not bought from an electric utility on or after Jan.17.01 there are no charges [except there may be an entrance fee to use the electric utility going forward] and (2) if a customer wants to switch from an electric utility to an ESP they must pay ""to the department any uncollected amounts equivalent to the department's net unavoidable cost of power procurement, including any financing costs, attributable to that customer"" to ensure the satisfaction of any power purchase obligation or bond obligation to serve ""that customer"".  The recovery period shall be coincident with the terms of bonds issued to finance the purchases.  The CPUC has 90 days from the effective date to notify customers of their obligations. The Kelley bill would remove the DA suspension authority granted in AB1x1 and replace it with the following (1) if a customer has not bought from an electric utility on or after Jan.17.01 there are no charges, (2) every customer is allowed to buy from an ESP a % of their load equal to the amount served by Utility Retained Generation (not CDWR purchases) with no charges, (3) after the effective date, any customer that buys from the electric utility and wants to switch must pay ""to ensure satisfaction of any power purchase obligation or bond obligation incurred by the department"" with the following constraints - (a) for res and small commercial customers, if DA load is less than load growth or (b) to self gen customers, if the customer has given 180 days prior notification or (c) if the customer has given DWR 12 months' advance written notice (then only a fee equal to 12 months unavoidable costs).  The CPUC has 30 days from the effective date to notify customers of their obligations. The Battin bill would ... still reviewing CPUC DECISIONS IMPACTING THIS May 5 Order - DA doesn't pay current DWR expenses.  Good for bypass of these costs. 
I have taken the liberty to draft a response to Mr. Perillo. Please look at this and make comments or changes.  I would like to finish by end of today. Jim 
This is you. Jim 
Allan Zaremberg, President of the California Chamber of Commerce, met with John Burton to discuss energy.  One of the items which John Burton brought up to Allan was Bob Hertzberg's core/non-core proposal. According to the Chamber, Burton is interested in the concept and wants to get Allan's thoughts.  The Chamber is very interested in hearing more about the proposal which they attribute to Enron and would like documentation.  Could someone please forward the appropriate documents to me.  I also suggested that the Chamber and Enron circle back to discuss the item in greater detail as soon as possible. 
See below.  I told you in my earlier analysis that $20B was the number. Jim 
Robert & Jeff -- Is there some other (competitive) storage that would want to work with our deal in CA other than SocalGas?  Maybe find someone adding some new storage. Jim Robert Neustaedter@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/16/2001 10:20 AM 
In response to your request to review the SoCalGas tariff with respect to storage service for quantities of  gasified LNG in excess of market I present the following. SoCalGas has various storage rate schedules available to its customers, including forms of interruptible storage service. Because of the long-term nature of the proposed project and firm injection requirements I focused on Schedule No. G-LTS (firm Long-Term Storage Service). Pricing under this schedule is very flexible (both upwards and downwards).  I have used the rates included in the tariff which are suppossed to closely correspond to utilty cost of providing such service and are also consistent with rates previously supplied for economic modeling purposes.  Keep in mind, these are benchmark costs, and may be subject to downward or upward negotiation. Because of the magnitude of the injection quantities, it was advised that some expansion of storage capabilities may be required. Fixed charges consist of an annual inventory capacity charge, and annual withdrawal capacity charge and a monthly firm injection charge.  The monthly firm injection charge is the largest cost component.  Based on conversations with SoCalGas, firm injection rights (similar to pipeline capacity) would be sold on a monthly basis.  Consequently, in order to have firm rights to injection capacity, it would have to be reserved 365 days out of a year. During the off-peak season, ""as-available"" injection rights may be used that could substantially lower the cost, but given the inflexibility of unloading of the LNG ships, this was not considered. Variable costs would consist of injection and withdrawal charges in the applicable periods (peak and off-peak) for injection and withdrawal quantities. A fuel retention factor of 2.44% would be applied to injections during the peak period. While not necessarily affecting the overall costs, a transmission charge on injections and withdrawals would also be assessed.  A transmission charge on injections would appear as a debit on the invoice, and an equal transmission charge on withdrawals would appear as a credit, effectively resulting in a wash.  However, for cash flow purposes it should be considered.  The transmission charge is approximately 57 cents per dekatherm. Transportation from storage would require a separate contract. A spreadsheet is attached that quantifies the storage cost on an annual basis utilizing the injection/ withdrawal and inventory assumptions provided. Again, please keep in mind that the actual costs are negotiable. I hope this helps in your analysis, and please feel free to call and discuss further. Robert 
Leslie -- Please call Jeff. Jim Leslie Lawner 09/08/2000 11:17 AM 
Do you have a final version of the paper explaining why California is having the problems it is?  I will be making a presentation in NM about this on the 26th.  Thanks. 
The commercial teams at EES need to understand our opinion / perspective on= =20 if Direct Access customers in the future will pay any surcharges.   Also, w= ho=20 can we contact in CPUC and legislature or governor office to verify? To make this make sense, I think that we need to think about this on a=20 ""revenue item"" basis (eg, Utility Undercollection from x date to y date). Why not discuss on CA call tomorrow? Jim Some notes from Order --- The surcharge adopted in D. 01-03-082 is intended to provide payment for DW= R=20 purchases which do not include purchases made by direct access customers.  = By=20 this exemption we intend to =01&net out=018 the charges and credits of dire= ct=20 access customers. =20 1. Direct access customers do not impose liabilities on CDWR, PG&E or Ediso= n=20 for procuring power. It would be inequitable for direct access customers to pay for their own co= st=20 of procurement and a share of the costs incurred on behalf of customers who= =20 purchase power from PG&E, Edison and CDWR. 1. The credit that direct access customers receive shall not reflect the=20 surcharges imposed on others by today=01,s decision, which direct access=20 
Early Next Week 
Jeff - Why don't you send this also to Phillip Allen? Jim 
Jeff -- FYI 
FYI.  As soon as we see the Data Request, we will contact the appropriate people in legal to start working out our responses. Jim 
I just received a call from John Kroeger of the FERC Ofice of Market Oversight and Enforcement.  They are in the process of a non-public investigation of gas prices at the California border and are issuing a 4 question data request to ENA, EESI and EEMC (jointly) today.  I will forward the data request by e-mail as soon as I receive it from FERC, but wanted to give you a heads up. 
Let's use EPSA. Jim Susan J Mara 05/14/2001 05:00 PM 
On May 11, the CA ISO made a ""compliance filing"" for the April 6 order on credit worthiness in the real-time market.  Whereas the FERC order REQUIRED the ISO to get creditworthy parties -- the ISO portrayed it as an obligation of the buying party.  Therefore, the ISO's letter says that the ONLY party to come forward to provide credit support was DWR -- and because of DWR's ""fiduciary obligation to conserve the finite resources that have been placed at its disposal"", DWR REQUIRED access to the ISO's control room floor and non-public data.  This is outrageous and just shows that the ISO has, in effect, become a state-run, vertically-integrated utility. Question -- do we want to protest this? Or sit by and see what the generators do? If we want to comment, it would be due June 1. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Here are the changes we discussed on Friday. I am sending Liz Ivers and Karen Denne for their review. Jim 
We care a great deal on Point #2 - the PX Credit issue.  Harry Kingerski will have the right messages. Jim Susan J Mara 05/11/2001 12:28 PM 
as of June 3 I learned at the AReM meeting today: SCE has informed ESPs that it will implement its advice letter on the MOU (don't recall the number) beginning with the new rates on June 3.  We are planning to protest that AL.  Do we care? IF we do, Jeanne, can we stop them? Also, SCE has informed people that it is calculating the PX Charge/Credit based on its AL that was rejected by the CPUC. Do we care on that one? Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Jeff - I would recommend that you (if needed) use Jennifer to help. Jim 
Ken Lay spoke with several California CEOs this morning and urged them to get personally involved in pushing for a comprehensive set of reforms.  Three expressed willingness to help. Scott McNealy (Sun):  contact person - Piper Cole (piper.cole@sun.com); scott.mcnealy@engeng.sun.com.  Mcnealy wants, by close of business today, a ""cheat sheet"" of the talking points to use with politicians (the ""8 or 10 elements of the solution"") with the expected comeback he may hear from the political leaders and our response to that comeback.  He says he hasn't spent time working on issues in Sacremento so we may also want to include a list of suggested contacts. Kevin Sharer (Amgen): contact person - Sarah Jensen, VP of Engineering and Operations (805.447.6785); ksharer@amgen.com.  Sharer wants the same information as McNealy and he and McNealy both indicated their willingness to call a meeting of other California CEOs.  Sharer will also be having breakfast with Hertzberg one week from today. Robert Day (Trust Co of the West):  said that he is very close to the mayor of Los Angeles.  He urged Ken to call the mayor (mentioning Day).  Ken would like some talking points for that call. Jeff - please put these items together. 
Looks good with me. Jim 
Rick -- The information below is very helpful for Government Affairs across the country.  I have a few other questions to support our advocacy: 1. How much of our new power plant development is not subject to Building & Construction Trade Labor Agreements? 2. Does Enron have any specific policies on whether or not we should use Union labor on our construction?  We recently established human rights and environmental policies, I am wondering if this applied to Unions? 3. Do you know if the pipelines are also using Union labor on their expansions?  Or maybe, who could tell me? Thanks. Jim 
Rick:  Thanks very much. Rick Johnson@ENRON 09/08/2000 11:35 AM 
Jeff, per your recent voice mail,  below you will find the labor relationship summary that I prepared for Sandy. Hope it is helpful, please call if I can be of any assistance. Rj. 
Sandy, I was again disapointed to hear that Union leaders are accusing Enron as being unfriendly to Labor.  In the last 20 months we have pursued construction on over 3000 MW of new generation capacity. Enron Development Activity subject to Building & Construction Trade Labor Agreements California 500 mw - PDEF - FeB. 99 750 mw - PEF - Feb. 2000 Indiana 550 mw- Westfork Development -  Oct. 99 Illinois 680 mw - Lincoln Energy Facility - Nov 99 Tennessee 540 mw -  Gleason Power I - Oct 99 Oregon 240 mw - Coyote II (planned January 2001) Ethynol Plant - Columbia County - Baugh Const. June 2000 Hopefully this will prove to be valuable information:  In addition to the direct agreements, Enron is pursuing third party projects in Chicago and New York City that will be subject to labor agreements. If the parties are interested, feel free to have them contact me directly 503-464-7548 Regards, Rick Johnson 
Mary & Joe -- Given the time frame for our response (2 - 4 minutes), we need to prepare not only our ""leave behind"" but also our ""oral message"". I want to make sure that everyone agrees with the theme and content of our verbal discussions.  Can you please put out an outline of the message and details and then make sure the Trading desk and CA Govt Affairs agree with the form and delivery (set up a conference call if necessary)? This is a very complicated issue and very short time frame to deliver.  The more we prepare I think the better we'll do. Thanks, Jim Mary Hain@ECT 08/22/2000 08:28 AM 
Attached is new and improved version of the FERC presentation.  Delete the one I sent you yesterday.  Detach and play ""slide show"" to see the short version that would be used for the presentation.  The additional pages would be distributed in hard copy as a reference document.   The document includes a few minor corrections and spellchecks, formats, etc. 
Looks good.  I wouldn't stress the MOU, but would rather focus on the ""melding"" of alot of good ideas.  The Investigation concession comes from whom? Jim 
Team -- My initial response is that this is not  a key issue for Enron (given everything else).  I'd rather simply know how the process is to work going forward, than make a big case either way. Jim JBennett <JBennett@GMSSR.com> on 05/07/2001 11:15:58 AM 
I think that we should be careful.  Private label activity can occur with a city today in California if the Muncipal government agrees.  I would not want to try and ""thread the needle"" on a very specific muni language right now in CA - too much activity. Jim 
Richard -- Can you please send a copy to Sandi McCubbin? Why don't we discuss how to pass along on the Tuesday CA call. Jim 
I think we should let people in the legislature know about this and see if one or more of them can get their hands on it. 
The following is a list of the scheduled conference calls held by Government Affairs on a going forward basis.  The primary responsibility of the Lead is to provide an agenda and to moderate the call. Please forward to anyone else. Thanks, Jim TITLE    DAY  TIME (Houston time) LEAD National Activities Update Mon  10:30am  Jim Steffes DC Advocacy   Mon  3:00pm   Linda Robertson California Crisis   Tues/Thur 1:30pm   Paul Kaufman/Jeff Dasovich Western Gas / Power  Thurs  2:30pm   Ray Alvarez 
Attached is some info that begins explaining the issue with gas basis differentials. Jim 
Attached is a letter we are sending to Sen. Dunn today.  Any questions, please call me.  We should not be discussing in public. Thanks, Jim 
FYI.  I bet Gov. Davis would want to see PG&E site these power plants in CA? Looks like PG&E is making money on deregulation both going and coming. Jim 
PG&E Corporation Signs Contracts to Secure 50 Generating Turbines Representing 15,900 Megawatts of Electricity BETHESDA, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sept. 11, 2000--PG&E Corporation's (NYSE: PCG - news) National Energy Group today announced the execution of contracts to secure 50 turbines representing a development portfolio of approximately 16,000 megawatts of electric power. The contracts include four 7FA and nineteen 7FB turbines from GE Power Systems, as well as twenty-one Mitsubishi MHI 501G turbines and six Siemens Westinghouse SW 501G turbines. The turbines will be deployed nationally to support the company's greenfield development projects. Most of the turbines will be funded through a creative off-balance sheet financing arranged by Societe Generale. The financing provides for the turbine purchases and related project costs without any near-term cash outlays from PG&E Corporation. ``These purchase agreements indicate our dedication to our overall growth strategy,'' said Thomas G. Boren president and chief executive officer of PG&E National Energy Group. ``With a substantial turbine procurement program, our commitments to satisfying regional energy needs and meeting our development goals are well underway.'' The contracts mark PG&E National Energy Group's largest turbine commitment to date and diversifies its turbine portfolio. Delivery of the turbines is scheduled through 2004. ``We are greatly diversifying our marketing and generation presence across the country,'' said Boren. ``As we strengthen our foothold nationally with projects to meet critical market needs, we achieve a three-way win: value for our shareholders, confidence for our customers, and reliability for consumers,'' he added. PG&E Corporation with 1999 revenues of nearly $21 billion and operations in 21 states, markets energy services and products throughout North America through its National Energy Group. The Corporation has ownership and management interests in 30 operating electric power generating plants in 10 states, providing it with a generation portfolio of more than 7,000 megawatts and more than 10,000 megawatts in new power plant development and construction currently underway. It also has one of the largest energy trading and risk management programs in North America. Please visit our website: www.pgecorp.com To order a copy of PG&E Corporation's 1999 Environmental Annual Report, click on the leaf symbol on our website or call 1-800-743-6397. To order a copy of PG&E Corporation's 1999 Financial Annual Report, click on the club symbol on our website or call 1-800-654-2582. EDITORS: Please do not use ``Pacific Gas and Electric'' or ``PG&E'' when referring to PG&E Corporation or its National Energy Group. The PG&E National Energy Group is not the same company as Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the utility, and is not regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission. Customers of Pacific Gas and Electric Company do not have to buy products or services from the National Energy Group in order to continue to receive quality regulated services from Pacific Gas and Electric Company. 
Are we still opposing this legislation? Thanks, Jim 
SBX 6 (Burton), which would establish a Public Power Authority, passed out of the Assembly moments ago on a vote of 47 to 8.  The bill must now go back to the Senate for concurrence.  I have attached the latest version of the bill for your review.  Three amendments were taken on the Assembly floor; (1) provide that PPA power utilized in California be sold at cost based rates, (2) provide that the PPA can also construct natural gas storage and transmission facilities, and (3) provide that the state can site on public land, then auction the plans to developers. http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/bill/sen/sb_0001-0050/sbx1_6_bill_20010419_amended_ asm.pdf 
Jeff -- Some thoughts - 1. Your key assumption seems to be that this Summer the energy supply manager (CDWR buying net short of utility) has enough ""power"" to sell the negawatts. I am not so sure.   I belive that a more realistic assumption is that in most hours this Summer, CDWR will be buying energy from the ISO. 2. If my assumption is closer to reality, than CDWR will not be able to sell ""excess"" MWs and pay the customer.  Even if you are right, CDWR buys at $80/Mwh (LT contracts delivered today) and sells at $300/Mwh = net benefit to deliver to customer of $220/Mwh [unless you are saying the $80/Mwh goes to retail rates and $300/Mwh to customer = which is what I say in #3]. 3. I think that we should just call a spade a spade.  CDWR should give the customer for a negawatt $300/Mwh independent of how they manage their portfolio.  The $ should be put into the general expense of power and collected through CPUC approved rates.  Had the customer consumed, that Mwh would have cost CDWR at least $300/Mwh (and probably more given the increased load).  The state and/or customers still spends the same $.  The only argument that one could have is that the customer who conserves ""costs"" other customers $.  But these other customers should not feel slighted.  Again, CDWR was already going to pay the generators.  Why not pay someone who has a real business in CA? 4. So let's compute the cost = 2000 MW x 80 hours [5x16] x $350/Mwh = $56MM for a one month, 2,000 MW on-peak curtailment. But the other benefit is (a) reliability, (b) less fossil fuel burned = cleaner environment, (c) sticking it too those damn greedy generators, and (d) probably lower overall prices and costs because lower demand. 
Janel -- Pls include this CERA study in Lay's California briefing book. =20 Also, in the study CERA mentions another study we should include (pls ask= =20 Joan Stransky to get it from CERA) - Beyond California's Crisis:  Impact,= =20 Solutions, and Lessons. Jim 
Does anyone know about the Regulatory risks or approvals necessary with monetization of Base Gas contained within Storage (either LDC or P/L)? Someone from Gas Assets called about this opportunity and I wanted to understand before setting up a meeting. Jim 
Bruno -- We should contact Mike Day as soon as possible and have him prepared to dra= ft=20 legislative fixes for any bill that would come out looking like the Wood=20 Draft Decision consistent with the issues you outlined below.  I want to ma= ke=20 sure that we are prepared for this possibility. =20 FYI, given the information I have, the Wood Draft Decision is more favorabl= e=20 for Enron's attempt at becoming the wholesale supplier to SDG&E.  It looks= =20 pretty tough to beat the Duque Decision. Jim Bruno Gaillard 08/22/2000 09:02 PM 
The events described below represent what has happened today. The situation= =20 is in constant flux. However, we need to know our position in case any of t= he=20 bellow does occurred. =20 Scott Baugh, Republican Assembly Leader, had a press conference in which th= e=20 republicans declared that: They accept Duque's Decision as is.=20 They are going to, request a special legislative session starting September= 1 The legislative session is going to look into supplementing focusing on=20 granting the Governor emergency power for supply side issues and streamlini= ng=20 sitting. Furthermore, they will propose to provide relief in addition to=20 Duque's decision, by providing  an extra $300 MM, retroactive to June 1,=20 2000,  to schools, hospitals and local government in the form of a tax cred= it=20 or cut and from the general fund. =20 They do not support the Davis/Alpert Bill (SDG&E Rate Freeze). (However, th= e=20 San Diego Republicans will probably vote for it). This also seems to take some wind out of the Pescetti bill (Freeze Extensio= n). This seems to be a political play. We do not believe that the republicans= =20 think that the Governor will actually declare a special session. The Alpert= =20 bill will  most likely be heard tomorrow. We do not know in which form and= =20 whether or not it will be amended. There also is a current rumor that a new bill may be introduce that would p= ut=20 the Wood Draft Decision into a bill. Our comments on the Wood decision focu= s=20 mostly on the recovery mechanism, limiting the application of the cap to=20 bundled customerrs, and insuring that only those that benefited from the ca= p=20 paid for the costs associated with  the cap. Attached is a brief summary of Woods proposal. caps the energy component of bills for residential, small commercial and=20 street lighting customers at 6.5 cents/kwh 
Do either of you have anything to add? Jim 
Robert -- Pls take a look.  We have some need for serious data inclusions and changes from Tamara.  I restructured the charts.  Hope this makes sense. I also don't understand the Direct Access Benefits to CDWR table - Are the savings monthly, annually, total??? We need to add Jeff's section on Natural Gas. Please everyone check out what I said about a California Demand Buy-Down system that should be in place until Retail Rate structure is changed.  Not sure if everyone wants this much detail or if this contradicts anything else we have put out. The goal is to get this to Janel by 3pm Friday for her to include in a Draft Package for Steve over the weekend with final revisions on Monday. I appreciate everyone's help. Thanks, 
FYI.  Need your support to move this process. Jim 
Pls look at this draft.  Robert we need some more information.  We need our expected prices for core / non-core from today until 2003. Jim 
Jeff -- Some how we need to include these numbers. Jim 
I've done some numbers that will help in a discussion around timing of any split. This graph shows $/MWh prices over time.  It compares a) solid lines (EES cost)  -- forecast using yesterday's commodity prices plus T&D&CTC (without any surcharges) b) muted lines -- forecast using our bundled prices where surcharge is set at 1 cent plus 3 cents rest 2001; 1 cent plus 2.4 cents for 2 years; goes to cost-of-service beyond where 2/3 of undercollections for IOU's are collected Here are some PV prices that are derived from these curves - for different starting dates and 1/3/5 year terms. 
Here is the new draft.   Do we a time line of actions? Jim 
LET'S WORK FROM THIS DRAFT. Jim 
Jim: The attached incorporates Jeff's changes from this morning as well as a couple additional revisions/clean up (i.e., I added some clarification to the rate design table per Jeff's suggestion). I look forward to your additional feedback. Thanks, Jennifer 5-3550 
Jeff -- Can you do this call? Jim 
No one knows.  I'm just trying to find out what the prices are. Jim 
With the on-going discussions in CA, we need to make sure that we understand what would happen if a core / non-core split were implemented. Basically, what is the 1 year, 3 year, and 5 year price for a E-19 and E-20 customer with a typical load profile?  Has to be all in (as if EES were selling gen only service). Give me a call if this does not make sense. Thanks, 
I'll mention to Shapiro.  I think that it would be perfect. By the way, if the whole damn state had just listened to a few very bright people in the CPUC we would have alot more free time. Jim 
I think that we should stop (or curtail) all EES work on SDG&E rate cases because we are not actively marketing in SD. Do people disagree?  What is the down side? Jim 
Jeff -- Attached is my redlined version of your comments. Use as appropriate. Jim 
Call at 12:30 Houston Time 
Call at 12:30 Houston Time Jim, Ernon Wind appreiates item number 4 - getting full payment for past due and going forward power deliveries. Additionally we would like the following: 1. Agreement that we can deliver up to the nameplatre capacity on our existing contracts 2.Assurance of transmission access for the nameplate amount on all of our contracts 3.Additional offtake agreements for future projects at a reasonable price 4 Ability to have EWG status tather than QF status under our existing contracts 5. Support for the voluntary energy pricing provisions of S.B. 47x Thanks, Hap Boyd 
John Bryson from SCE called Jeff Skilling to seek our support for their=20 restructuring MOU before the California Assembly and the CPUC. =20 Steve Kean has asked that I get together a phone call to discuss this=20 proposal and our potential ""wish list"" that would be necessary for SCE to= =20 earn our support. I would like to set up a call for tomorrow at 12:30 Houston time.   The=20 call-in number is 1-800-486-2726 Code 789296 (for US parties). =20 Here is my initial proposal for Enron's list: 1. Full payment of PX Credit to ESP (receivable and going forward) from 1st= =20 Tranche of Securitization & agree to dismiss PX Credit compliant at CPUC. 2. Transmission network operated by West-wide RTO, not California ISO (roll= =20 Cal ISO into larger RTO) OR maybe push for TransElect buying . 3. Clear language on continuation of Direct Access with clarity on Surcharg= e. 4. Full payment to EWC on all charges (receivable and going forward) from 1= st=20 Tranche of Securitization. 5. Back-Up transaction to Transmission Sale =3D SCE should offer the market= =20 (including the State) the ability to buy the Hydro facilities. I'm sure there are others.  Maybe we want to be involved in a QF=20 restructuring deal? The plan is for Enron to try and respond to SCE by Friday (no later than=20 Monday). =20 Please call me if there are any questions at 713-853-7673.=20 Jim P.S.   For those who don't have the MOU, here is a brief overview. The following is an outline of the basic terms of the Southern California= =20 Edison Memorandum of Understanding: ? Commitment to Provide Power =01) SCE will keep its current generation pla= nts=20 and other generation assets and commit them to provide power on a regulated= =20 cost-of-service basis for 10 years. ? Dedication of Power =01) Edison International will commit the entire outp= ut of=20 Sunrise (one of Edison International=01,s non-regulated generating faciliti= es)=20 to the State on a fixed price basis for 10 years. Phase I of Sunrise is to = be=20 brought online by August 15, 2001. If not brought online by August 15, 2001= ,=20 Edison International shall be assessed a $2 million penalty. ? Transmission Sale =01) SCE will sell to the State its transmission assets= for=20 approximately $2.76 billion (2.3 times the net book value of the assets),= =20 subject to certain adjustments. Of the $2.76 billion, the $1.5 billion gain= =20 on sale, will be used to reduce SCE=01,s net undercollected amount as of Ja= nuary=20 31, 2001. In connection with the purchase, the State will also assume certa= in=20 liabilities associated with the transmission assets. ? Backup Transaction =01) If the transmission sale does not occur within tw= o=20 years for reasons beyond the parties=01, control, then if the State elects,= SCE=20 shall sell to the State SCE=01,s hydro generation assets. If the hydro asse= ts=20 are not worth $1.5 billion, then SCE will also sell the state after Decembe= r=20 31, 2010 enough below-market-price-power to make up the shortfall. ? Conservation Property =01) SCE shall grant perpetual conservation easemen= ts to=20 the State covering approximately 260,000 acres of its Big Creek hydroelectr= ic=20 related lands and 825 acres of its Eastern Sierra hydroelectric related=20 lands.  Some of the land may be deeded in fee. ? Contribution by Edison International =01) Edison International will refun= d to=20 SCE not less than $400 million.  This money will consist of a refund of=20 approximately $293 million in estimated 2000 quarterly tax payments plus=20 approximately $197 million in federal loss carryback tax savings. ? Investment =01) Edison International and SCE will invest not less than $3= =20 billion over the next 5 years in capital improvements for SCE. ? Litigation =01) SCE shall dismiss certain claims, including its takings a= nd=20 filed rate doctrine cases. ? CPUC Regulation =01) CPUC shall continue to regulate SCE using historical= =20 principles of ratemaking. ? Payment for Portion of QF Drop-off =01) SCE shall pay an amount that=20 represents that portion of the net short from January 18, 2001 to April 1,= =20 2001 that is attributable to QF=01,s not selling to SCE (due to SCE=01,s fa= ilure to=20 pay the QF=01,s).  SCE will securitize this amount. ? Securitization =01) SCE shall securitize its full net undercollected amou= nt=20 (approx. $3.5 billion).  The securitization shall occur in two tranches (i.= e.=20 two different nonbypassable dedicated rate components). ? The first tranche will occur after the passage of legislation and the=20 signing of the definitive agreements and will cover the net undercollected= =20 amount, less the gain on sale, plus interest on certain obligations in the= =20 net undercollected amount. ? The second tranche would be triggered if the transmission sale does not= =20 occur within two years.  Accordingly, the second tranche would not show up = in=20 rates for two years, if at all. ? Buying the Net Short =01) The State will be required to buy the net short= =20 through December 31, 2002.  After 2002 SCE will be responsible for covering= =20 the net short. ? Investment Recovery =01) SCE shall have an authorized rate of return that= will=20 not drop below its current rte (11.6%) during the 10 year cost of service= =20 ratemaking period. ? Next Steps (Definitive Agreements and CPUC Action): ? Definitive Agreements =01) Once the MOU is signed, the next stage is to= =20 negotiate definitive agreements which contain the specific terms of the=20 transmission sale, as well as the specific terms of the various other relat= ed=20 agreements (e.g., the O&M Agreement, Transmission Services Agreement and th= e=20 Facilities Services Agreement). ? CPUC Action =01) Prior to entering into the definitive agreements, the CP= UC=20 must undertake certain actions (which include: establishing mechanisms for= =20 preapproval of procurement costs and URG costs, deferring SCE=01,s general = rate=20 case until 2003, granting SCE some relief from direct access credits and=20 clarifying the first priority condition in the holding company act). 
Western Government Affairs -- Here is the outline of the Upcoming Issues by Forum we put together recently in DC.  We need to make sure that we have everything on this list (or add as appropriate).  Of course, this list will continue to evolve - I added the Cal ISO request to buy ""forward"" on the list. Gavin Dillingham has agreed to maintain a calendar that will track all of these Issues and Important Dates.  Our goal is to have a calendar program that everyone can access to keep on top of what is going on related to California and the West. Please let me know if you have any thoughts on this. Jim 
Here are some notes on a Cal Strategy. Jim 
Jeff - Given everything going on, I've decided to not come to SF.  I still think that you, Sue, Harry and Michael should talk on Monday pm.  Michael has your address and will come by around 5pm Jim 
Agreed.  Trying to be too cute with our strategy is difficult. Look, about 4 years ago we pulled out of the market.  I think that we need to simply accept that these customers are going back sooner or later.  NPC won't even pick this up. Jim Paul Kaufman@ECT 04/13/2001 01:06 PM 
I like the idea, particularly if we can time any decision to turn the customers back so it falls after the failure to get some action out of Sacto (instead of after our earnings release). The only problem I see is that we would need a decision from the top that we're not going to turn the customers back if we get direct access (so we can end the debate).  I don't think it helps us if we get lucky, get direct access back, then make a decision to return customers to the utility. Karen Denne@ENRON 04/13/2001 10:30 AM 
Before any decision is made, I think we really need to weigh in with EES on the ramifications (both PR and legislative) of turning back 16,000 residential customers.  I strongly believe that the public hit we will take will be far greater than our actual out-of-pocket losses.  We will be crucified by the public, media, consumer groups, legislators, governor, attorney general, etc.,  and this action will reaffirm our reputation of packing up and leaving when it's not in our interest.  The impact of this action would be exacerbated since it is on the heels of UC/CSU. I would also argue that this hurts our national dereg efforts.  If we're advocating that competition and choice benefits consumers and then we turn around and pull out of a market and abandon customers when we're not ""profiting,"" we'll kill any chances we have of ever serving retail customers in California -- or in any other state.  We look foolish advocating for direct access when we're not willing to serve our existing -- let alone future customers What about a preemptive strike that engages these 16,000 customers to weigh in on direct access -- i.e. a letter that says ""Enron may be forced to cancel its contract -- call/write/send the enclosed postcard to your legislator and 
In the meeting today, no decision was made about what to do with Enron's 16,000 residential customers.   Each of the contracts gives a basic 30 day out right to Enron. That being said, I think that we have a short window to push for DA before any public action impacts us in Sacramento. I realize that the ultimate action (which I think is inevitable) makes it harder for our advocacy on DA, but real $ are flowing out of the company. EES will give us notice when a decision is reached. Thanks, Jim 
Scott, etal -- My final concern. Is anyone at EES concerned with this outcome -- (1) Accept EES' tiering but use 60% of current usage as baseline, (2) all above 60% is DJ Index, and (3) demand below 60% is paid at $500/Mwh (or the ISO price)? This is an adaption of our proposal.  Would this be painful? My big fear is that somehow the CPUC uses our filing against us.  We need to make sure that these discussions don't get away from us to allow that outcome. Jim Scott Stoness@EES 04/13/2001 12:00 PM 
We have agreed on a strategy, subject to Whaley/Delaney approval, to: Scott Stoness submit testimony today advocating 2 part real time pricing in CA Read other parties testimony this weekend from the perspective ""Has somebody filed testimony close enough to Stoness testimony, that we can cross examine 
Scott -- Can your assistant get a call in # for those in CA? Jim Scott Stoness@EES 04/13/2001 12:00 PM 
We have agreed on a strategy, subject to Whaley/Delaney approval, to: Scott Stoness submit testimony today advocating 2 part real time pricing in CA Read other parties testimony this weekend from the perspective ""Has somebody filed testimony close enough to Stoness testimony, that we can cross examine 
Here are the arguments / material that I am trying to round up by mid-day Friday.  Please add anything else to this to prove our point. Enron's Agenda - Making the System More Reliable / Ending the Crisis 1. Supply - really four key pieces to the puzzle (1) Streamline Generation Interconnection, (2) Mandatory Electricity Reliability Organization, (3) Public Power Transmission Facilities Fully Under FERC, (4) Complete Open Access - End the Native Load Exception The key theme:  Open Access ""expands"" the available generation and reduces the overall need to build. 2. Demand - Industrial & Commercial Demand Buydown The key theme:  Sometimes the cheapest watt is the watt that isn't used. I want to add that I still think that the right message is reliability AND cost savings.  In California, the electricity bill could go from $7 billion/year (1999) to $70 billion/year (2001).   No matter how big your economy is, there is no way that a price shock of that magnitude won't kill your future growth. KEY PROOF 1. HEPG Presentation    Shapiro 2. Natural Gas Analysis   Carson 3. Balkanization Analysis   Walton/Comnes/Neustaedter 4. AEP Transmission Abuses  Novosel 5. FERC Staff Report Anecdotes  Novosel 6. TCA Analysis - Price Impact  Pickel/Tabors 7. TCA Analysis - Expanding Supply Pickel/Tabors 8. Western Power Market Abuses  Dasovich/Comnes I will try and call everyone in the am to discuss. Jim 
Jay -- I wanted to talk with first thing on Friday about our decision to weigh in with testimony in this case.  Forgetting the question Legal may or may not have (let's assume they don't have any concerns) about Scott testifying, it is still my opinion that we should not file testimony. First, I assume that you have already marked your book to the Lynch ""thoughts"" on rate design and revenue allocation included in the initial Order.   I make this assumption, because the loss to EES has already occurred and our goal now is to try and bring back some of the value by (a) focusing on revenue sharing and (b) rate design.  Scott indicates that the loss could be $100MM with bad outcomes on the 2 key issues.  My purpose of EES' activity is to try and minimize that number.  I feel that a quiet but forceful role in the case is the best vehicle given our recent troubles in CA and before the CPUC. Second, I am not sure that Govt Affairs is comfortable with Scott's model of rate design.  While tiering of rates is on the table, the question of demand reduction payback under his framework could result in customers using 70% of their load and paying nothing.  That hardly makes sense.  Now maybe we just don't understand, but putting in testimony that is unclear or confusing isn't going to win the day before the CPUC. Third, most of our victory will come from aligning with the big users.  If we are supporting / defending our own testimony (which they haven't seen), I think that our ability to work through a Settlement will be limited.  Our goal is to ""pick and choose"" from the best solutions proposed while trying to highlight other options through cross-examination (granted, this may be very hard). Fourth, someone may try to get EES to weigh in on the allocation of these costs to DA customers.  We have agreed not to take on that issue.  Scott doesn't get to use the Fifth Amendment to not answer. Scott and his team is preparing testimony.  Give me a call.  If Scott and you are intent on moving forward, we'll do as you see fit within the other constraints. Jim 
Not sure if you had seen this information.  Looks like if the SCE deal is approved, SCE would assume CDWR contracts. Jim 
SCE held a conference call this morning to discuss the  Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) related to the sale of its transmission assets with members of the investment community.  After a  brief description of major provisions of the MOU, questions were taken.  Following is a summary of that call. Major Components of Plan (repeatedly referred to as the ""Governor's Plan"") Maintains cost-of-service treatment for utility retained generation for 10 years Sale of transmission assets (or other assets) to CDWR Dedication of the ""Sunrise"" generation project to cost-of-service based rates for 10 years ($2 mm penalty if not on-line by August) Provision of easements and potential conveyances in fee of certain lands (at two hydro projects) Provides for full recovery of $3.5 B utility net underrecovery as of 1/31/01 Commits SCE to spend $3 B in capital expenditures over 5 years Dismissal of federal lawsuits by SCE SCE will resume traditional utility procurement obligations by 1/1/03, assuming CDWR contracts and entering into new purchase contracts as necessary It was stressed that the MOU was a comprehensive plan to be treated as an integrated package.  While the CPUC and members of the legislature were involved in various stages of the negotiation, the agreement is technically between SCE and CDWR.  Various regulatory and legislative approvals are necessary for implementation of the MOU.  SCE has rights to terminate the MOU if the CPUC  has not adopted specified ""implementing decisions"" within 60 days.  Legislation necessary to implement certain provisions of the MOU must be passed by August 15. For ratemaking purposes the CPUC will grant SCE a 11.6% ROE on its generation and distribution rate base. Questions and Answers What was expected timing of return to investment grade for SCE? Up to the rating agencies.  Many steps to go through.  It is assumed agencies will be following closely but timing is uncertain.  Would have to be before utility resumes power procurement obligations. Applicability of 11.6% ROE? ROE would increase from current 7% ROE to level no less than 11.6% for both generation and distribution assets on unamortized balance at 12/31/00 and capital structure roughly at 50/50. Potential for write-offs? While plan calls for full recovery of net undercollections as of 1/31/01, because of timing issues SCE may take a write-off then have a ""write-up"" at a later date. Interest in how/why/impact of inclusion of Mission Sunrise generation project (investor concern over market v. regulated returns)? The state was looking at all options for long-term power contracts.  Market returns traded for security of long-term contract. What will be source for $3 b capital investments over next 5 years? Capital would come from retained earnings, borrowing and additional investments from holding company. Concern over ability of existing rate level (and ""waterfall"" disbursement) to recover all costs especially if CDWR procurement costs increase? Existing rates should cover all costs.  Provisions in MOU allow adjustment to rates to maintain investment grade status. What was gained from MOU as opposed to pursuit through the courts? Speed and certainty with respect to resolution of outstanding issues. Will the sale be a taxable event? Yes. What is the URG unit cost? $.042 per kwH. In 2003 would SCE have ability to replace contracts of CDWR (when SCE resumes procurement role)? SCE would have ability to enter into new contracts, but would not ignore obligations under CDWR contracts.  New contracts would be subject to PUC prudence review.  SCE would file procurement plan with the PUC. 
I will plan on attending weekly.  Let me know if anyone else should go? Jim 
Not good news from Canada.  Power lines are full when appropriate.  Just Powerex's power. Jim 
THIS IS AMAZING.  THE GUY MUST BE SMOKING CRACK COCAINE.  I AM SO GLAD THAT= I=20 DON'T HAVE TO LIVE IN A STATE THAT IS THIS F!#(@(* STUPID.  MAYBE WE SHOULD= ?GO AROUND IN THE NUDE TO KEEP COOL - PROBABLY RAISE THE THERMOSTAT ANOTHE= 
. ??FYI.  More on the Governor's comprehensive energy crisis management pla= 
Governor's office has reached out to the Silicon Valley Manufacturing?Group= to assist them in understanding the needs and concerns of the business?com= munity.  One very important aspect of the energy issue is that of?conservat= ion.  In an attempt to understand the usage patterns of business?and their = efforts towards conservation, the Governor's office asked that we?implement= this quick survey.  Please take a moment to answer the following?questions= and return to me via e-mail by 4:30 this evening.  By completing?this surv= ey we will help the Governor address our needs.???-Please indicate at what = temperature your company has historically kept the?thermostat set.???-Pleas= e indicate where your company expects to keep the thermostat set given?the = current conditions.?????*PLEASE NOTE*?All information received through this= survey will remain confidential.  SVMG?continues to protect the interests = of its member companies.  This survey in?no way demeans that obligation.  A= ll information provided to any party will?be anonymous.  Thank you for taki= ng the time to complete this survey.  Given?the urgency of the current situ= ation and its constantly changing nature, I?apologize for the short time fr= 
Not sure if anyone is interested, but please call Jeff Dasovich for more info. Jim 
I think that Margaret's analysis may cover much of this (not the Enron specific action). Jim Janel Guerrero 04/03/2001 01:07 PM 
Guys, Our friends at Environmental and Energy Analysis sent this email around regarding the gas shortage in CA.  They might be useful for us in terms of analysis, prepartion etc.  Or is MRW already providing us with this type of assistance? 
besides electricity, there is an equal and related upcoming meltdown on gas in california.  our assessment is that the current high prices are largely a result of intrastate constraints that will be exacerbated as gas use for power generation increases.  for this summer it is possible that there will be generating constraints due to inadequate gas delivery capacity.  a more likely outcome is that power generators will get the gas they need at the expense of storage injection for winter heating load.  this will create supply problems and higher residential gas problems next winter.  summer prices for industrial gas users will also be higher. a possible solution is to take advantage of fuel switching.  many of the california plants are old oil/gas plants and have the capacity to switch fuels.  they are currently limited by environmental limits.  it might be in california's broader interests to allow some flexibility on switching this summer to ensure power reliability and adequate gas storage for the winter. reasons for possible interest for enron - better power reliability this summer, possible gas/oil trading opportunities, emissions trading opportunities?, other? since oil is much cheaper than the currently high california gas prices, this option would also increase the profitability of the plants that switch fuels.  it's not clear whether this helps Enron.  one option would be to require very clean oil since the market will bear significant cost. there are a few questions related to this: how tight will gas be this summer?  what are the likely impacts without switching?  are the plants still oil-capable? let me know if this is something you are interested in discussing. Joel Bluestein Energy and Environmental Analysis, Inc. Phone 703-528-1900 Fax 703-528-5106 
In the meeting today, no decision was made about what to do with Enron's 16,000 residential customers.   Each of the contracts gives a basic 30 day out right to Enron. That being said, I think that we have a short window to push for DA before any public action impacts us in Sacramento. I realize that the ultimate action (which I think is inevitable) makes it harder for our advocacy on DA, but real $ are flowing out of the company. EES will give us notice when a decision is reached. Thanks, 
Janel -- I have this on the SCE deal.  Don't know if the CA team has officially=20 blessed this messaging? Jim 
Here are some thoughts on what our message may be.=20 Unclear how this is going to increase supply, decrease demand, and increase= =20 customer choice.  Still doesn't make sense to us to have the state buy a=20 crumbling transmission network instead of school lunches. We don't have enough details.  There are several aspects that are interesti= ng=20 and could use further study.  Governor Davis needs to make the details publ= ic=20 as soon as possible so people can understand the full implications.  For=20 instance, what happens to DWR contracts?  Will they be assigned to SCE?  Wi= ll=20 customers have the right to choose going forward? The recent events highlight the critical need to make sure that customers c= an=20 make their own energy decisions going forward.  We know that Government=20 doesn't know how to get this right.  The right answer is giving customers= =20 more choices, not fewer. Can't endorse it until we know if our bills are going to be paid in full.  = If=20 the bills aren't paid in full, highly likely that we'll see involuntary=20 bankruptcy. Too bad that this deal wasn't done earlier.  It could have saved alot of=20 money and pain. Why do you need to include the transmission purchase in this deal?  May nev= er=20 happen.  Make it easy - just deal with the under collection through=20 securitization and throught the EIX refund to SCE and get on with it. =20 Jim 
Margaret Carson has put together a great piece (including slides) that needs to be finalized so that we can get it put together to explain California. I have checked the material.  It looks fine.  My next thought is to ask someone from PR to work it up from a graphics/layout perspective. Also, the California team should have final sign-off. I will ask Marcia Linton to fax (or send by e-mail) it out to everyone on this list and get our next steps. Jim P.S.  If people are not aware, Margaret Carson is retiring from Enron.  Her 
Jeff, Sue & Harry -- Michael and I are both in SF on Monday evening.  We were talking about getting together some time in the evening to put together a framework of our case around the Negative CTC in ""bankruptcy"" terms. Does everyone agree and does the time work? 
In discussions with the Administration, it has become clear that there would be great political value in being able to  demonstrate (a) the economic value of open access for the US and (b) the impact open access would have on the current energy crisis. Enron has developed historical analysis of the impact of deregulation on natural gas.  Margaret Carson is putting together some slides that show (1) throughput improvements, (2) expansion in pipeline capacity, and (3) cost reductions in the industry.  While not exactly identical, there are some good reasons to assume that the same would occur in the electricity industry. It would be great if you could develop a general qualitative framework that would outline why open access is preferable in the very short-term and work on a larger quantitative framework over the medium-term. To that end, Richard Tabors of TCA had earlier analyzed the economic loss from AEP's abuse of its transmission network last year.  He may have additional insights into developing this concept. Please call me with further questions at 713-853-7673. 
Here are some thoughts on what our message may be.=20 Unclear how this is going to increase supply, decrease demand, and increase= =20 customer choice.  Still doesn't make sense to us to have the state buy a=20 crumbling transmission network instead of school lunches. We don't have enough details.  There are several aspects that are interesti= ng=20 and could use further study.  Governor Davis needs to make the details publ= ic=20 as soon as possible so people can understand the full implications.  For=20 instance, what happens to DWR contracts?  Will they be assigned to SCE?  Wi= ll=20 customers have the right to choose going forward? The recent events highlight the critical need to make sure that customers c= an=20 make their own energy decisions going forward.  We know that Government=20 doesn't know how to get this right.  The right answer is giving customers= =20 more choices, not fewer. Can't endorse it until we know if our bills are going to be paid in full.  = If=20 the bills aren't paid in full, highly likely that we'll see involuntary=20 bankruptcy. Too bad that this deal wasn't done earlier.  It could have saved alot of=20 money and pain. Why do you need to include the transmission purchase in this deal?  May nev= er=20 happen.  Make it easy - just deal with the under collection through=20 securitization and throught the EIX refund to SCE and get on with it. =20 Jim 
FYI.  Today's update. 
1. PG&E Bankruptcy Update PX Credit Discussion Creditors Committee Issues Enron Response - Legal, PR, Other 2. Legislative Update 3. CPUC Update 
Alan-- Pls use Jennifer Thome. Jim 
I think I have the basic data to do an estimate of interconnection benefits. Flow data is summarized in the attached chart. It'll take a day or so of someone's time to crank out the benefit calculation.  It's a little tricky lining up the gas and power data. Jim is there an access/excel jockey I could tap for such help?  Otherwise I'm going to plea for some external help. 
Proposals 
Proposals We have filed comments in support (see attachments) of Kern River's emergency expansion proposal to add 135,000 Mcf/d of capacity through temporary compressors and El Paso's request to keep the compressors that had originally requested to abandon in their oil pipeline conversion application which will add 230,000 Mcf/d of capacity on their south system.   In-service dates would be July 1 for Kern River and August 1 for El Paso, assuming expeditious treatment of the applications at FERC and no problems with permits. Kern River held an open season for their expansion and ENA was awarded about 3,700 Dth/d.  The El Paso capacity will not be contracted to individual shippers, but will be used for system flexibility and to cover outages on the system this summer when they start testing as required after the explosion last year. El Paso 
FYI.  May want to cover. Jim 
----- Message from ""Tracey Bradley"" <tbradley@bracepatt.com> on Wed, 28 Mar 2001 17:14:17 -0600 ----- 
FYI US House panel sets April hearings on Calif crisis ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- WASHINGTON, March 28 (Reuters) - The U.S. House Government Reform Committee said Wednesday it would hold three field hearings in California next month on the economic fallout from the state's chronic electricity shortages. The hearings will take place on April 10 in Sacramento, April 11 in San Jose, and April 12 in San Diego. California, which has struggled to keep the lights on since last autumn, is widely expected to face blackouts during the peak power demand months of the summer. On Tuesday, state regulators approved an average 40 percent increase in consumer electricity rates to cover the soaring cost of energy and pump more cash into the state's near-bankrupt utilities. ""The energy crisis in California has ramifications for the entire 
Any info? Jim 
Jim, I have been hearing 95% probabilities that the bonds get issued.  Is that your view? Chris 
Tracy -- Here is our first draft.  I am checking with other Govt Affairs personnel to incorporate their thoughts. Jim Tracy Ngo@ECT 03/27/2001 07:11 PM 
That would be great.  The DASH format is ever-changing wrt to other moving parts so no worries.  -Thanks, Tracy 
I'll have our comments first thing in the am.  Hope that is ok. Jim 
Is there any way that this group of people (and other people who may want to participate) can begin to have weekly conference calls to keep everyone fully in the loop on what is happening and needs to happen going forward related to wholesale activities - gas & power? When things settle down (will that ever happen?), maybe weekly calls won't be necessary.  But given the pace and intensity of matters, we should try and coordinate through a 30 minute call.  I suggest Friday afternoon (3pm Houston) - that should give us the ability to make sure the right RCRs are submitted for discussion Monday am. Also, Sue Mara has been keeping a catalog of activities on Power Wholesale matters.  (1) Sue can you please send it out to all of these people, (2) Sue. should we let the DC team - Ray and Donna - keep the catalog to make sure that we are organized before FERC?  Appreciate your thoughts. Let me know.  I'll ask Marcia to try and put this together for this Friday and going forward. Jim 
FYI.  DWR declines to extend option (which is amazing because our deal is one of the few deals that would help CA - lower prices today). Jim 
FYI - we proposed several alternatives to DWR that would effectively extend our put swaption through the end of April for a cost to ENA of approximately $5MM.  None of those were acceptable to DWR.  The option will therefore expire at 5:00 PPT today.  Vikram Budraja, Advisor to Gov Davis, suggested that we are not dealing in good faith and suggested that he will speak with Ken Lay (we have heard this several dozen times).  In any event, I expect to talk with DWR tomorrow to propose  a short-term transaction.  They might 
FYI. 
Given the status of Phase I of DWR possibly being extended to the end of April, we will not be circulating a DASH at this time for the five-year DWR swaption.  Will advise at a later date of any developments. Thanks all for your help for now. Regards, 
Tracy -- Here is our first draft.  I am checking with other Govt Affairs personnel to incorporate their thoughts. Jim Tracy Ngo@ECT 03/27/2001 07:11 PM 
That would be great.  The DASH format is ever-changing wrt to other moving parts so no worries.  -Thanks, Tracy 
I'll have our comments first thing in the am.  Hope that is ok. Jim 
Attached is a list of parties the Cal ISO has identified in an earlier report that had ""overcharged"" the market from May - Nov 2000 (the filing was mistakenly put into the FERC docket room). EES is listed as party B8 with $27.9 MM as Excessive Rents. The biggest overcharger was BC Powerex with $176.2 MM. We are still analyzing the implications of this list and will get out any other information. Jim 
Attached is a fax I received of a filing the ISO made yesterday afternoon to supplement its comments in Docket No. EL00-95-012 regarding market monitoring and mitigation.  The filing links the names of the suppliers and importers discussed in Dr. Sheffrin's analysis to the code numbers used in yesterday's filing.  The ISO had requested confidential treatment.  The fax is in TIFF format and you can disregard the first page as it is a cover sheet to me. Please let me know if you have any questions or need anything else. Nancy 
Mike, etal -- I wanted  to get your perspectives on the idea that the CPUC will raise rates tomorrow?  Is this legal, without any notice? Did the CPUC give notice on its prior Emergency Surcharge action? What else should happen tomorrow at CPUC meeting?  Most importantly, what is happening with DWR need for more clarity?  I would really appreciate a copy of the March 7 CPUC Decision on DWR issues. Please respond or call at 713-853-7673. Thanks, Jim 
Alan -- Not sure if the West Desk is interested in Demand Bidding issues with the ISO, but wanted you to loop around with the commercial people to see if there are any specific problems with the current ISO programs. Please communicate any issues with Harry Kingerski. Jim 
We are working to get demand bidding into CA legislation (AB31X).  The ISO wants from us our laundry list of issues of why their existing programs are inadequate.  This is a great opportunity to influence them. Neil and Jubran, could you give us your specific issues and suggestions?  Jay and Fred, any suggestions would be great from you also. We will set up a call for Monday at 4 pm CST to discuss and will get phone number out to you.  Thanks. 
Pls give me a call. Jim 
Attached please find some notes for the 3/26 4:00PM CST meeting. 
Executive Summary: ? The as yet unnumbered rescue bill by Davis made it to the Senate floor ? An exemption of the gas-fired QFs from this bill (as proposed by Sen. Keeley) could further forestall an involuntary bankruptcy filing. ? If passed, the draft CPUC order would give the utilities another 15 days after rate hikes to pay the QFs ? The negotiations with the QFs are complicated by the issue of payments owed by the utilities to the DWR. Senators are demanding that the utilities set up a trust fund from rate revenues to pay back the DWR. ? The CalEnergy ruling (as reported by Bloomberg this PM) is an attractive option for other QFs looking to at least temporarily escape long-term supply contracts with Edison. ? If neither the CPUC nor the legislature exempts the gas-fired generators from the new rate structure, an immediate involuntary bankruptcy filing is expected.  However, if the exemption is implemented, then a bankruptcy filing would be delayed. 1. ""QF Bill"" Makes it to Senate Floor The ""CPUC bill"" (the number is not yet known) is in mock-up form and does the following: * Repeals PUC Code section 390, which set a formula for QFs under deregulation. * Amends portions of AB 1X which will ensure that DWR receives money for its power purchases, and includes provisions for the issuance of bonds. * Includes a provision for SDG&E rates since they were not covered under other legislation. The bill passed the Senate Energy (8-2), and also just passed the Senate Appropriations Committee (8-2) and is headed to the Senate Floor. 2. Senator Comments on the Bill: Keeley (author of bill) presented that the bill would allow the PUC to decide the QF contracts which is the proper authority  to debate the issue. Most of the opposition to this portion of the bill was regarding the fact that the bill provides no guidance to the PUC regarding voided costs for natural gas-fired QFs.  Republicans offered an amendment to not have section 390 repealed for gas-fired generators, but Keeley had concerns with the amendment.  Keeley stated that he did not think they should limit the PUC's flexibility and that as drafted the amendment was too broad.  He also indicated that gas-fired utilities have a legitimate issue with the draft order.  He said that the PUC order needs to be amended, and Keeley is confident that the PUC has recognized that in discussion over the past 48 hours. 3. Opponents to the QF Bill: The following people testified in opposition to QF portion:  TURN, Delta Power (QF), Syke Energy, John Hancock Financial, California Manufacturers Association, Crockett Cogeneration, Independent Energy Producers, Clean Power Campaign, PG&E, SCE. The gas-fired QFs that testified in opposition noted that they have been off-line for a couple of months and cannot come back on-line unless their issues are addressed. In response to the QFs not getting paid, Sen. Bowen stated that if the utilities do not pay the QFs as directed under the draft order, then she would personally see to it that they go into bankruptcy. 4. PG&E and SCE Testimony: Sen. Battin asked both utilities about the draft order, which states that after the change in the rates by QFs the utilities must pay the QFs within 15 days, and whether the utilities would abide by the order. PG&E's response was that they are receiving $400 million per month, the cost of their own generation is $100 million, and the QF amount is $240 million per month; the draft order would lower the QF cost to $140 million.   PG&E was cut off at this point and asked point blank whether their answer to Battin's question was ""yes or no.""  Battin, Bowen and Murray all asked whether it was yes or no.  The PG&E rep stated that it would be ""no"" if the issue of the payments owed to ISO and DWR is not resolved.  If the ISO costs of purchases were included in the DWR payments, then PG&E would not have a problem. The SCE response was that if the money coming in was less than the money going out, then it could not comply with the PUC order. 5.  Payments to DWR Senator Sher then asked both utilities regarding a requirement under AB 1X that the utilities set aside those moneys that are owed to the DWR for purchasing power that they collect from ratepayers in a trust fund those. SCE responded that they are still in negotiations with DWR on the terms and conditions.  Several legislators responded angrily that this was not part of the bill, and that they should have a trust fund set up.  PG&E noted that they are setting 'some' money aside, but would not state how much. Sen. Sher ended the conversation by stating that if the utilities do not set up a trust fund by tomorrow they would either pass emergency legislation or 'go after them' for violating the law. 1X Provisions: Tim Gage from Dept. of Finance noted the Governor's support of the entire bill, and noted that the 1X provisions would ensure that DWR gets paid. PG&E also testified in opposition to these provisions. Senator Bowen made the following statements: * Senator Peace has announced that he has received another notice of $500 million appropriation needed to purchase power and will not approve the funding unless PG&E and SCE drop their challenge to the PUC regarding the DWR issue. * Also stated that the PUC could always raise rates as a way to resolve the issue. 
FYI. 
? The legislature will meet and vote to repeal Section 390 of AB 1890.  This will reverse what the QFs get  paid from natural gas costs and replace it with the formula in the governor's current plan - 7.9 cents/kwh for 5-year contracts and 6.9 cents/kwh for 10-year  contracts.  According to sources, this is ""locked in to pass.""  It  will be implemented by a PUC order on Monday. ? The QFs met on this plan all day yesterday and have calculated what they would get paid.   This  plan would not generate enough money for many QFs to operate profitably.  At  least 2,000 MW of the total 5,407 MW of gas-fired QFs would be unable to generate  a positive cash flow and would have to either operate unprofitably or shut down. ? The QF community is responding with an increased militancy for an involuntary filing, according to sources.  The most aggressive QF after Coram Energy is David Sokol and Walter Scott of Mid-America Energy (based in 
Joe Hartsoe - My understanding is that Hebert doesn't have the legal authority (and the filing never makes clear) to Suspend performance under the PPA (he probably doesn't have the political support for this either). EPSA, however, could support this in its filing as a method to help move the QF issue forward. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/20/2001 10:04 AM 
We are trying to set up energy purchasing arrangements with QFs who get temporarily released from their contracts.  Take a look at the e-mail below and see if we can suport them. Thanks C 
This should give LEGC something to shoot at - I love the statment ""In fact, a good case can be made that, given market conditions, consumers would have saved as much or more under effective regulation, without exposing them to price spike risk"".  Isn't this the crux of the argument. Jim 
gngr 713-853-7751 
Ginger:  you still have the master distribution list.  Will you please foward the documents to all of our people?  Thanks 
FYI. Janel - you might want to distribute more broadly within group.-- Thanks. 
On March 19th, the Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights published a report in it's Bailout Watch newsletter (Special Report: The Manufactured Energy Crisis) concluding that California's energy crisis has been manufactured by ""energy firms.""  A copy of the report is attached and is also available on the organization's website at www.consumerwatchdog.org. Today, the Consumer Federation of America released a report (Behind the Headlines of Electricity Restructuring: A Story of Green, Irresponsibility and Mismanagement of a Vital Service in a Vulnerable Market) asking policymakers to ""rethink"" the move toward retail electric competition.  A copy of the report is available at their website at www.consumerfed.org or www.consumerfed.org/calmkt.pdf.  Copies of the press release and the report are also attached. - calmktpress.pdf - calmkt.pdf - bailout21.pdf 
Shouldn't it be us? Jim ""Jeffrey Watkiss"" <dwatkiss@bracepatt.com> 03/21/2001 02:29 PM ? ? ? ? 
? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? The California Power Exchange has filed a complaint for declaratory relief against the California Independent System Operator. ?The case description from our tracking service reads as follows: Plaintiff seeks a declaration that defendant lacks the legal right to hold the $177 million in funds remitted to the ISO by PG&E in response to invoices transmitted to PG&E by plaintiff in connection with obligations incurred in December 2000 by PG&E in the ISO's markets. 
EFFICIENT BUILDINGS -- EES Wins $1.5 million 
FYI.  I think that the press on Gov. Davis is a bit misleading. Jim 
EFFICIENT BUILDINGS -- EES Wins $1.5 million FYI 
I also heard that Mike Day is working on some thoughts - coordinate with him please. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/21/2001 09:51 AM 
FYI:  The City of Long Beach has now joined in the law suits.  They've sued SoCalGas and El Paso claiming (like the others who've sued) that the two conspired to ""kill competition"" and drive up prices.  I think that we can expect that topic to get some airtime, since the TURN's, Harvey's, UCAN's etc. of the world will likely be steering all the Democrats. I'll throw some questions together; but won't be till the end of the day. Best, Jeff James D Steffes 03/20/2001 06:23 PM 
Jeff -- Can you please develop a list of questions for Legislative members to ask in the Gas hearing? I would give the soft ball questions to PG&E and SoCal Gas and focus on the CPUC as the problems. Jim 
Jeff -- Can you please develop a list of questions for Legislative members to ask in the Gas hearing? I would give the soft ball questions to PG&E and SoCal Gas and focus on the CPUC as the problems. 
The only one that I don't see is the SDG&E offer from Parquet last year. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/19/2001 08:24 PM 
Jim: Attached is a fairly distilled summary of the projects Enron's offered to the utilities, DWR and the ISO over the past 9-12 months, or so.  With respect to the power contracts offered to the IOUs, only the offers accepted by PG&E and Edison are included---the desk doesn't keep records of offers rejected, only offers accepted.  However, I'm fairly confident that I can dig deeper and get more info on the other power deals offered to Edison, PG&E and SDG&E if folks would like that information.  Just let me know. Prices are included for the offers that had prices attached when submitted. Best, Jeff 
Ratemaking has gotten no easier.  Maybe we can get the Government to realize that they can't even set rates for the little bit of retained generation without huge litigation? Jim 
We may also want language that limits the ""rate shock"" of this type of activity to EES' customers? Janel, can you add to Monday's call agenda. Jim 
AB 25 creates the Electric Rate Stabilization Auhtority which can arrange financing for the utilities' overpayment debt which is defined as the liabilities incurred between 6/1/00 and 3/31/01 through purchases of electricity from generators or other providers other than themselves, parent companies, affiliates,or subdivisions, for which ratepayer revenues were insufficient to pay.  This is one of those bills where your eyes glaze over, but I think the one area where we may have an issue, or desire clarification, is Article 5, PUC ratesetting.  The bill says that the PUC shall fix rates for the 3 utilities that provide them with sufficient revenues to pay the amounts assessed (by the Stabilization folks).  I think we would like language exempting direct access customers from these assessments in the bill 
----- Message from ""Tracey Bradley"" <tbradley@bracepatt.com> on Fri, 16 Mar 2001 09:01:51 -0600 ----- 
Thursday March 15, 9:14 pm Eastern Time Edison Creditor Secures Plant Lien By LESLIE GORNSTEIN AP Business Writer LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Breaking away from a pack of creditors owed billions by Southern California Edison, Caithness Energy got permission Wednesday to secure a lien against one of the utility's plants. The judgment lets the New York-based electricity supplier to attach a partial claim on an Edison facility in Laughlin, Nev. -- a move that could spur bigger creditors to launch similarly aggressive approaches or even force Edison into bankruptcy. Caithness, which has two Nevada plants owed $20 million by Edison, was allowed to attach the lien by U.S. District Judge Lloyd George of Las Vegas. Once it becomes final in the next few days, the claim will be the first lien successfully placed against an Edison asset since California's energy crisis began last year. An Edison spokesman said the utility will seek a stay of the order next week. A lien allows a creditor a better chance of getting paid by laying claim to all or a portion of any future sale of a property. The judge allowed Caithness to file for a 56 percent interest in the plant, which employs 309 people and is valued at $530 million. The energy was used by Edison to feed California's energy grid, Caithness attorney Philip Korologos said Thursday. Edison owes Caithness a total of $100 million, and another $20 million bill will come due at the end of March, Korologos said. ``They took delivery of the power and they are supposed to pay us for the power,'' Korologos said. But whether Caithness will go after Edison's California assets is far from certain. Korologos said he believed that some form of additional mediation is required for California liens that might make such an option less attractive in the utility's home state. Edison's bigger creditors, including Reliant Energy of Houston, declined to speculate on whether they will employ a similar tactic. But industry experts said that the Caithness move could cause other, bigger creditors to feel pressure to act more aggressively on behalf of shareholders. The law requires only three major creditors to band together to force Edison into involuntary bankruptcy; the utility has said it does not intend to file on its own. So far, most creditors have chosen to simply wait, or ``forbear,'' on the Edison debts, having fielded repeated pleas by Edison to do so. At least four creditors or groups of creditors have sued the utility for money owed but have taken no further action. A New York-based creditor last month unsuccessfully tried to attach a lien to an Edison bank account without success, an Edison spokesman said. Edison's problems began last year when, under California's 1996 deregulation law, investor-owned utilities were forced to buy power on the soaring spot market while limiting the rates they could charge consumers. Edison and fellow utility Pacific Gas & Electric say they owe creditors a combined $14 billion. 
Jeff & Miyung - Steve Kean would like to build a database of offers made to California that were rejected last year.  This would become public information to give to the Bush Administration, Capitol Hill, etc. 1. Peaking Offers / Plants (incld Calpine) - Jeff can you work with Parquet to build this. 2. Terms sales to SDG&E last year - Miyung can you run a press clipping report to show what was not taken.  Also, Jeff can you please get the full details (MW, Price, Term) for our offer to SDG&E last year. Thanks.  Please call with questions. 
Jeff -- It would be helpful to get some feedback prior to starting to deal with the fundamental question related to direct access for smaller customers.  I would like to know Teece's perspective on the role of government in this marketplace.  In addition, I think that the paper must deal with the drawbacks of having mixed roles - utility default supply and competitive markets. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/15/2001 03:11 PM 
choice Greetings: As I've mentioned, I've been discussing with a group of academics (principally from UC Berkeley) the possibility of producing an analysis of why it makes sense to move forward toward de-regulation, and makes no sense to turn back to command-and-control regulation.  Clearly, we're at a fork in the policy road---move forward, or go back. I've (finally) gotten a proposal from the group.  It's attached.  Please take a look.  I'd like to distribute more widely internally for comment, but wanted to run it through a preliminary screen to guage whether folks think it would be useful before cluttering up folks' in-boxes with more emails to read.  Few points worth mentioning: The majority of the academics that would do the report are affiliated with LECG, Inc., the consulting group that I worked with prior to joing Enron. List also includes Dan McFadden, UC Berkeley nobel prize winner who wrote the recent op-ed piece in the WSJ. The list also includes Hogan and Joskow  and Borenstein.  We could certainly exclude these folks should we choose to go forward with the analysis. However, the goal is to produce a high level analysis, i.e., ""de-regulation is good and can work; command and control regulation is bad and we know that it does not work.""  Once the study is released (if it is pursued), the ""authors"" could tour the country, testifying before federal and state bodies to advocate the virtues of de-regulation and the pitfalls of reversing course.  The analysis would not be a debate over ""To Poolco, or not to Poolco, PJM, etc.""  In this way, including folks like Joskow and Hogan could offer the added benefit of creating a ""Nixon goes to China"" scenario.  Please take a look at the list of participants.  Again, we can add to and subtract from the list. Laura Tyson would be one of the two project leaders. (The other would be David Teece, Chairman of LECG.) None of the folks on the list occupies either extreme of the political spectrum.  It's a mix of D's and R's who are arguably centrist economist and strong believers in markets (I won't vouch for Joskow and Hogan). The idea would be to get a wide array of industry participants from across the country to support the project.  This is for two reasons:  1) the more diverse the group supporting the effort, the greater the credibility, and 2) they are asking for about $1 million to do the study. If you think it would be useful to pursue the study as part of our national campaign to minimize the damage created by California, I would like to start immediately to approach trade associations, companies, customers, etc. nationwide to garner support for the project. Let me know if you think the effort would be worthwhile.  Appreciate your comments. Best, Jeff 
Vicki -- I don't have any further additions.  I assume that Dave understands the link between rate freeze end and payment. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/14/2001 03:09 PM 
My comments on Bob's memo. Best, Jeff Vicki Sharp@EES 03/14/2001 02:05 PM 
would like your comments 
Introduced 
FYI. Jim 
Here are notes on 43x that Harry Kingerski put together. Jim Regarding proposed rate freeze for large SDG&E customers at 6.5 cents: Adds to DWR's burden of covering the net short positions without any further clarification of how shortfall will be funded. The incentive these customers now have to participate in DA and thereby remove burden from DWR is removed. Creates incentives to increase usage and decrease conservation, exactly at the time that just the opposite effect is desired. Rate at frozen level removes all price signal effect in unregulated market. These are customers who under existing law already have had choice, as an alternative to paying market price, of 1) voluntarily opting in to a one year 6.5 cent rate freeze, with a true-up, or 2) buying commodity and risk management products in the competitive market, as many of them have already done, and 3) reducing usage to save money. This bill takes takes away the last two choices/incentives. Adopting ""rates by proxy"" (in a sense, indexed to PG&E and SCE rates) creates the potential for a regulatory nightmare. As an alternative, the Legislature should consider extending the voluntary opt-in program under existing law. This would preserve existing protection, keep choices available to customers, and not unduly add to DWR's burden. I don't think that we have any real facts about usage increases due to the bill, only the general understanding that if prices don't rise people won't take any real action. Jim? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/13/2001 07:12 PM 
If you're referring to the conversation we had on today's call, it's actually a bill by Dede Alpert (sp?) that, if signed by the Governor, would cause demand to go up.  Were you referring to that or something more general? Best, Jeff Janel Guerrero 03/13/2001 06:47 PM 
is it possible to get a one-pager talking points on the san diego situation and how the govenor is increasing the demand on the system as we head into summer?  who can do this? 
Becky -- Can you please find out (a) details about the emergency expansion on Kern River and (b) key Firm Shippers on Kern River, Mojave, PGT? Philip Allen called me this morning and asked about our ability to ""get a read"" on the potential for other Firm Shippers on Kern River to oppose this expansion.  Can we quietly reach out to our industry contacts (other Govt Affairs shops) to get their opinions? His concern is primarily about Kern expanding into CA will limit other Firm Shippers given the limitations on the SoCal system [Jeff, give me a call to see how this plays in CA]. While we are not a Firm Shipper (and we probably don't want to get directly in front of this - Enron fights expansion), how will FERC and its Staff look at this issue [Donna & Leslie}? Let's try and have the info and a call on Thursday at 4pm Houston time to get back to him afterwards. 
PLEASE DO NOT DISTRIBUTE THIS OUTSIDE OF ENRON.  WE HAVE NOT YET APPROVED THESE INTERNALLY.  IF ANYONE HAS COMMENTS, PLEASE SEND TO JIM STEFFES FOR INCLUSION. Thanks, Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 05:52 PM 
For what it's worth, here are my edits overlayed on Jim's, Harry's and whomever else provided comments. Best, Jeff James D Steffes 03/12/2001 04:28 PM 
Jeff Dasovich is taking the lead. Jim Vicki Sharp@EES 03/10/2001 10:35 AM 
UC/CSU has brought an action in Federal Court in Oakland seeking to have its physical delivery service returned to direct access. Would the  regulatory affairs team I am copying on this letter decide who the point person should be for us to communicate with.  We would hope  that you could participate in the call or we could debrief you afterwards.   Thanks. Dan Leff 03/10/2001 05:56 AM 
Mike Smith needs to be involved in all of this communication Thank you - Dan Donna Teal 03/09/2001 10:48 PM 
Please plan to attend this meeting; Tom and Doug, please call in. 
Here is the chart 
I would like to start at 11:30 given some prior committments.  Jeff should have the document ready to review.  We can get through this in 1.5 hours. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/07/2001 09:29 AM 
I think we may have decided to start at 11 AM?  I have a 1 PM meeting. Possible to start at 11? Best, Jeff Marcia A Linton 03/07/2001 08:22 AM 
A conference call meeting has been set up for 11:30 am today, March 7 to discuss EES Negative CTC.  Conference room EB-4746 has been reserved for the Houston participants.  The call-in number for the call will be: 888-422-7137 Host Code (for Jim only) - 438907 Participant Code (for everyone else) - 865493 If you have any questions regarding this call, please give me a call at 713-853-3226. Thanks, Marcia 
FYI.  This information comes from ENA Competitive Analysis.  Not sure if you're getting this. Jim 
Executive Summary ? If no comprehensive deal is reached by April 9th, chances of bankruptcy increase due to a one day ""opt-out"" clause in all long-term power contracts. ? PG&E and State locked in tough negotiations, several issues on the table: PUC-imposed requirement forcing PG&E to ultimately be responsible for California energy supplies Price of the grid; state - 2.3 times book value vs. PG&E - 4 times book value ? PG&E will not use any of the $1B secured last week to help their ailing utility. ? Davis's announcement of long term power contract didn't include some details: Of the 8,800 megawatts secured this far, only 6,000 are available this summer Some of the ""long term contracts"" are really only for three months None of the contracts prevent California from buying peak demand on the spot market ? One the same day Davis announced long term contracts, Davis also quietly announce a 10% rate hike. ? FERC may be the wild card in approving this deal. PG&E Transmissions deal One thing that is still uncertain is PG&E.  Bankruptcy may still be a likely alternative if current negotiations to buy PG&E's share of the electric transmission grid fail to produce a deal by April 9 (when all long-term power contracts being negotiated have a one-day ""opt-out"" clause they can exercise unilaterally if a ""comprehensive solution"" has not been reached by the state and its major utilities).  According to sources close to senior PG&E officials, PG&E made it clear that any hope for a politically acceptable deal on the transmission lines depends on the California government's willingness to make a major financial commitment it has been completely unwilling to make until now. PG&E will not make a final deal to sell its grid unless Davis agrees to relieve it of the PUC-imposed requirement to be the ""electricity buyer of last resort.""  Current state regulations make the utility companies ultimately responsible for generating or purchasing enough electricity at all times to supply California's energy needs.  As long as the state steps in and makes those purchases, as it has for the past three months, the utilities are shielded from absorbing the losses generated by paying premiums for spot market power and selling to consumers who are shielded by low rate ceilings. But, PG&E officials are worried 1) this summer's supply and 2) Davis's concern over how fast he is draining the state's budget surplus.  If things get into a crunch this summer and Davis makes a new decision that the state will pay only for the electricity it buys through long-term contracts, then PG&E will be left holding the bag. Thus, as part of the negotiations over buying the electricity grid, PG&E is demanding a ""comprehensive solution"" that includes not being liable for cost differentials between the spot market purchase and what consumers are allowed to pay.  State officials are in no mood to grant that kind of ""get out of jail free"" card, so the two sides remain locked in extremely tough negotiations that are complicated by three other factors: (1) PG&E's public behavior and welter of announcements in the past few days that seem to encourage suppliers to force involuntary bankruptcy; (2) State legislative demands that the price Davis negotiate for PG&E's part of the electricity grid be no more than 2.3 times revenues from the grid; and (3) the FERC must ""positively approve"" any grid purchase by the state of California. The principal concern on the price front is that PG&E wants to sell the electricity grid for nearly four times the estimated book value of their transmission, while consumer groups insist that two times book value is the politically acceptable limit.  ""We see 2.3 times book value as an absolute upper bound. There is no way PG&E will get more than that, whatever they think,"" according to the leader of one main consumer groups.  ""We are going to try to force any deals down to about 2.0 in any case."" Negotiators for Davis are also trying to 'proposition-proof' any transmission deal to protect against a later ballot proposal.  They think there are ways to do that, but not if the price of PG&E's part of the grid triggers a ballot initiative. Remember, if Davis's eventual solution triggers a ballot initiative, he will be running for re-election on the same ballot as a public initiative designed to overturn his solution. On the Sacramento front - no one understands PG&E's motives The one question no one in Sacramento can figure out is what kind of game PG&E is playing.  In a three day period PG&E made a series of announcements that left everyone scratching their heads. ? Late Thursday, PG&E officials leaked information to California papers that they had agreed in principle to sell their part of the electricity transmission grid to the state, which seemed like obvious good news, but then made it clear in discussions that the price they were asking was at least 30% above what the state was currently offering.  While a deal can still be done, anything like the $10 billion PG&E wants would be very hard to get through the California legislature which needs to approve any purchase. ? Late Friday, PG&E officials announced that they had secured a $1 billion loan for the parent company (not the electricity utility) and would use the money to pay off bondholders, other creditors and to return $161 million to shareholders in a new dividend payout.  Not a cent of that money was earmarked to help the struggling electricity orphan of PG&E and that left at least one rating agency convinced that the company was more ready to send the utility into bankruptcy than had been previously understood. ? Over the weekend, PG&E leaked a story claiming that it was willing to pay off its energy suppliers' debt for 15 cents on the dollar right now.  For generators who are having to make decisions each morning about whether to start legal actions that protect their rights in any eventual bankruptcy action or hold off on the assumption that the politics of this process will ""make them whole"" in a couple of months, that kind of trial balloon is extremely unnerving. Thus, in a very short time period, PG&E's corporate owners showed they could access public credit markets with relative ease and then showed that they were unwilling to use these funds to smooth the way toward a solution to the energy crisis.  Davis has demanded that all of the major utilities absorb at least a part of the $13 billion debt they have accumulated since last summer and PG&E's fund-raising will harden and deepen those demands.  As one senior political official told our source ""just when you think the corporate leadership of that company has insulted us as completely as possible, they 
On your last point, I think that we need to as rate class specific as possible without delaying their work.  Disagreements? Jim Robert Neustaedter@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 03/01/2001 06:20 PM 
Spoke with Bill Munson and Roger Yang of MRW Scope of project would be rate forecast for PGE and SCE industrial/commercial class customers for 24-36 month period providing alternate scenarios for certain issues - MRW will provide assumptions Friday morning. Cost - Close of Monday deliverable - $10k - Thursday - $7k FYI - Submitted RCR for $25K With respect to determination of ""Net Short"" generation cost - MRW suggested generation cost be allocated on a cost incurrence basis (no subsidies) and that we agree as to mix of DRW portfolio and utilize Enron forward curves to price out Provided to MRW utility tariff schedules that majority of positions are under.  Need to determine if we want an individual rate projection, average rate class projection or benchmark projection (%increase). 
Jeff -- Some minor edits.  Looks good. Jim 
FYI. 
Jeff -- Please add John Neslage to your e-mail list. 
Vince -- Please feel free to also call Jeff Dasovich (415-782-7822) in our San Fransisco office.  He has been very involved in the California market discussions and presented before FERC during their field hearings.  He knows the profs you are meeting with and has some great insights into our positions. Jeff also attended Berkeley as an undergrad and is now attending their B-school in the evenings. Thanks. Jim Steffes 
I recommend that we ask MRW to do a quick and dirty (nothing more than $10k) to quantify Steve's qualitative analysis.  Good to have before we fight this out at FERC.  If someone internal can do it, great. Thoughts? Jim 
Jeff, In order for California to ""shut its doors"" it must open its interconnections with the rest of the west and become a Texas-like electrical island.  This they cannot do.  California has a substantial investment in units located in Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.  The lights would go out in California if they opened the ties.  In the 1970's there was a hue and cry over loop flow, with California claiming that it was being injured by others, particularly by the interior systems trading practices, however they never considered opening the ties, because the benefits of interconnection were so large that the ""cost"" of loop flow was far exceeded by the value of regional trade, i.e., they are economically interdependent. If such a foolish thing were done and California full ""closed its doors"" by opening its ties, cost would go up in the Northwest, in California and all the rest of the Western System.  There are ""gains for trade"" which accrue to all parties from interconnection.  The trade is more complicated than just summer/winter peaks (seasonal load diversity) there is also seasonal resource diversity (Spring run off effects) and finally there opportunity to capitalize on storage vs base load thermal operations.  I will address the last point first to illustrate the complexity of the trading patterns. The interior west (Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico) has large amount of base load coal plants.  As load drops off in those areas, the energy flows to the coast to back off peaking plants and to back off hydro. The reduction of hydro production allows night time reservoir refill which can be used to meet peak load in the Northwest and California.  This can be seen in the attached file, which contains a set of plots for hourly flow on the Pacific DC Intertie Jun97, Dec 97, Jun 98, Dec 98, Jun 99, Dec 99, Jun00.  In these plots the clear day/night exchange of energy can be seen, especially in the Jun00 plot when sales are being made to California in the day and to the Northwest at night.  This day to night storage exchange benefits lowers costs for everyone. On top of this daily/weekly cycle, there is the seasonal shift in load diversity you noted.  For the Northwest, its peak load occurs when energy production is the lowest -- during the winter.  As a stand alone system, the Pacific Northwest (i.e., the Columbia Drainage area) is energy constrained. The hydro in that area does not produce enough energy to meet annual needs. There is plenty of generating capacity to meet any peak, but not enough to total water flow.  Energy imports from Wyoming and Montana (e.g. Colstrip and Bridger) are required to allow the Pacific Northwest to meet its annual energy requirement.  With these energy inputs from the coal fields, the seasonal water budget can be arranged to get the most value out of the hydro system, although fish, navigation, irrigation, etc. impose an increasing number of constraints.  Energy imports from in the winter from the South help to meet this energy balance during the winter so water can be reserved until the snow pack is better know in early Spring.  Some of the sales to the Northwest from California during the winter are a result of displacement from Desert Southwest energy moving through California and then up the Interties to the Northwest. Finally, the Spring run off/fish flush when production on the river is at a maximum and load in the Northwest is down.  The sale of these surpluses paid for the Pacific Intertie lines and remain important to the entire system. Much system maintenance of base load units has been historically been planned to take advantage of this factor.  Again both California and the Northwest benefit from this trade. In all cases, the parties would be worse off if the ties were open and everyone was on their own.  The Northwest may be capacity long, but it is typically energy short, even in flush hydro years.  The winter energy imports from the South hold Northwest costs down just as spring run off sales to the South lower energy costs in California.  California cannot craft a solo solution that ignores the rest of the West.  It is probably hard to decide who would be worst off if California ""closed its doors"".  It is only clear that total cost would rise in both California and the rest of the West from which it divorced itself. I hope this rambling response comes at the question you raise. Steve Jeff Dasovich@ENRON Sent by: Jeff Dasovich@ENRON 02/28/2001 11:35 AM 
To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems to always be tied to this notion that ""California is a net importer, even in the winter.""  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets. Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion: If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has developed over the years. To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist. The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the summer. Let's take two scenarios: 1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California. Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking. The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California closes its doors. 2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power. I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW (e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the question that Jim asks. With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW is long---how can California closing it doors not increase the PNW's cost of power? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 02/28/2001 08:05 AM 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
Sue, etal - It's important to monitor and support the section - (b)  The right of a retail end use customer who has not purchased power from an electrical corporation on or after January 17, 2001 to purchase power from an alternate provider may not be limited by this section. I think that this would take care of the UC/CSU issues (does anyone disagree)? Jim Susan J Mara 03/01/2001 06:43 PM 
This is an OK bill.  Not well drafted. It's also overly complicated and proscriptive. Deletes the offensive part of ABX 1. It allows anybody to do whatever they want until June 1 (section 2 d) On June 1, - res and small commercial customers can get in a cue and get DA up to the # of MWs that are added through load growth. (Section 2 e) -- Larger customers would pay an exit fee. (section 2 f) -- DA customers would be a entrance fee to return to IOU service (Section 2 g) There is also a confusing section (2 c) that says a retail customer is only stuck with CDWR for the proportion of power that CDWR provides.  The way it reads, if CDWR is providing 40% of the IOUs' power, the retail customer can get DA for 60% of its load.  I doubt that will fly -- too difficult to keep track of and ISO will oppose (only one scheduling coordinator/meter) A conference call and meeting is scheduled with parties tomorrow on this language. Will keep you apprised. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Attached, please find the proposed amendments to SBX 27 (Bowen) relating to direct access.  There will be a direct access coalition conference call tomorrow to discuss current events as well as the new language. - SB27Xlanguage.doc 
FYI.  Will try and keep everyone informed. Jim 
Here is a brief summary of today's call with UC-CSU: Attended by business and legal representatives from each side (including University outside counsel) to discuss views of the dispute Universities are entrenched in their position that we did not have the right to D-DASR their accounts; their demeanor was relatively aggressive They have asked us to explain in more detail our reason for D-DASRing their accounts, including how that action ""enhances our ability to fulfill the cost guarantee"" under the agreement They demanded again that we return their accounts to our service, and we refused again We reiterated our position that we have the right under the contract to D-DASR and that continued performance of physical delivery was and continues to be commercially impracticable. We pointed out that their actions are impeding our exercise of our rights under the agreement. They expressed an unwillingness to continue the dialogue around a commercial solution until we return their accounts to our service. We agreed to have another telephone conference Monday, but we do not expect much progress. Although not threatened, it remains likely that the universities are considering seeking some sort of injunctive relief 
In case you hadn't seen. Jim 
Here is the letter that is going out today. 
On your last point, I think that we need to as rate class specific as possible without delaying their work.  Disagreements? Jim Robert Neustaedter@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 03/01/2001 06:20 PM 
Spoke with Bill Munson and Roger Yang of MRW Scope of project would be rate forecast for PGE and SCE industrial/commercial class customers for 24-36 month period providing alternate scenarios for certain issues - MRW will provide assumptions Friday morning. Cost - Close of Monday deliverable - $10k - Thursday - $7k FYI - Submitted RCR for $25K With respect to determination of ""Net Short"" generation cost - MRW suggested generation cost be allocated on a cost incurrence basis (no subsidies) and that we agree as to mix of DRW portfolio and utilize Enron forward curves to price out Provided to MRW utility tariff schedules that majority of positions are under.  Need to determine if we want an individual rate projection, average rate class projection or benchmark projection (%increase). 
Sue, etal - It's important to monitor and support the section - (b)  The right of a retail end use customer who has not purchased power from an electrical corporation on or after January 17, 2001 to purchase power from an alternate provider may not be limited by this section. I think that this would take care of the UC/CSU issues (does anyone disagree)? Jim Susan J Mara 03/01/2001 06:43 PM 
This is an OK bill.  Not well drafted. It's also overly complicated and proscriptive. Deletes the offensive part of ABX 1. It allows anybody to do whatever they want until June 1 (section 2 d) On June 1, - res and small commercial customers can get in a cue and get DA up to the # of MWs that are added through load growth. (Section 2 e) -- Larger customers would pay an exit fee. (section 2 f) -- DA customers would be a entrance fee to return to IOU service (Section 2 g) There is also a confusing section (2 c) that says a retail customer is only stuck with CDWR for the proportion of power that CDWR provides.  The way it reads, if CDWR is providing 40% of the IOUs' power, the retail customer can get DA for 60% of its load.  I doubt that will fly -- too difficult to keep track of and ISO will oppose (only one scheduling coordinator/meter) A conference call and meeting is scheduled with parties tomorrow on this language. Will keep you apprised. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Attached, please find the proposed amendments to SBX 27 (Bowen) relating to direct access.  There will be a direct access coalition conference call tomorrow to discuss current events as well as the new language. - SB27Xlanguage.doc 
I recommend that we ask MRW to do a quick and dirty (nothing more than $10k) to quantify Steve's qualitative analysis.  Good to have before we fight this out at FERC.  If someone internal can do it, great. Thoughts? Jim 
Jeff, In order for California to ""shut its doors"" it must open its interconnections with the rest of the west and become a Texas-like electrical island.  This they cannot do.  California has a substantial investment in units located in Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.  The lights would go out in California if they opened the ties.  In the 1970's there was a hue and cry over loop flow, with California claiming that it was being injured by others, particularly by the interior systems trading practices, however they never considered opening the ties, because the benefits of interconnection were so large that the ""cost"" of loop flow was far exceeded by the value of regional trade, i.e., they are economically interdependent. If such a foolish thing were done and California full ""closed its doors"" by opening its ties, cost would go up in the Northwest, in California and all the rest of the Western System.  There are ""gains for trade"" which accrue to all parties from interconnection.  The trade is more complicated than just summer/winter peaks (seasonal load diversity) there is also seasonal resource diversity (Spring run off effects) and finally there opportunity to capitalize on storage vs base load thermal operations.  I will address the last point first to illustrate the complexity of the trading patterns. The interior west (Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico) has large amount of base load coal plants.  As load drops off in those areas, the energy flows to the coast to back off peaking plants and to back off hydro. The reduction of hydro production allows night time reservoir refill which can be used to meet peak load in the Northwest and California.  This can be seen in the attached file, which contains a set of plots for hourly flow on the Pacific DC Intertie Jun97, Dec 97, Jun 98, Dec 98, Jun 99, Dec 99, Jun00.  In these plots the clear day/night exchange of energy can be seen, especially in the Jun00 plot when sales are being made to California in the day and to the Northwest at night.  This day to night storage exchange benefits lowers costs for everyone. On top of this daily/weekly cycle, there is the seasonal shift in load diversity you noted.  For the Northwest, its peak load occurs when energy production is the lowest -- during the winter.  As a stand alone system, the Pacific Northwest (i.e., the Columbia Drainage area) is energy constrained. The hydro in that area does not produce enough energy to meet annual needs. There is plenty of generating capacity to meet any peak, but not enough to total water flow.  Energy imports from Wyoming and Montana (e.g. Colstrip and Bridger) are required to allow the Pacific Northwest to meet its annual energy requirement.  With these energy inputs from the coal fields, the seasonal water budget can be arranged to get the most value out of the hydro system, although fish, navigation, irrigation, etc. impose an increasing number of constraints.  Energy imports from in the winter from the South help to meet this energy balance during the winter so water can be reserved until the snow pack is better know in early Spring.  Some of the sales to the Northwest from California during the winter are a result of displacement from Desert Southwest energy moving through California and then up the Interties to the Northwest. Finally, the Spring run off/fish flush when production on the river is at a maximum and load in the Northwest is down.  The sale of these surpluses paid for the Pacific Intertie lines and remain important to the entire system. Much system maintenance of base load units has been historically been planned to take advantage of this factor.  Again both California and the Northwest benefit from this trade. In all cases, the parties would be worse off if the ties were open and everyone was on their own.  The Northwest may be capacity long, but it is typically energy short, even in flush hydro years.  The winter energy imports from the South hold Northwest costs down just as spring run off sales to the South lower energy costs in California.  California cannot craft a solo solution that ignores the rest of the West.  It is probably hard to decide who would be worst off if California ""closed its doors"".  It is only clear that total cost would rise in both California and the rest of the West from which it divorced itself. I hope this rambling response comes at the question you raise. Steve Jeff Dasovich@ENRON Sent by: Jeff Dasovich@ENRON 02/28/2001 11:35 AM 
To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems to always be tied to this notion that ""California is a net importer, even in the winter.""  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets. Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion: If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has developed over the years. To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist. The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the summer. Let's take two scenarios: 1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California. Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking. The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California closes its doors. 2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power. I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW (e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the question that Jim asks. With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW is long---how can California closing it doors not increase the PNW's cost of power? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 02/28/2001 08:05 AM 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
Are we working on this in Sacramento?  Do we have language?  What is the level of interest? Jim 
For the last two days I participated in the negotiations between several QFs and the utilities regarding implementation of SBX 47. The goal of the meeting was to present a substantially complete ""Agreement of Long-Term Gas Purchase Arrangement""  to Battin this Thursday. Through this document they intend to describe what the parties have agreed to and the changes required in the bill to conform to the parties agreement. Attendees included PG&E and SDG&E (SCE is clearly opposed to the bill), Calpine, El Paso, Sithe and the CCC represented by White and Case. It appears that SDG&E's support for the bill is weakening with their mantra being ""if this doesn't guarantee a price reduction over the five years we won't support the bill."" We explained that the goal is not so much overall price reduction as price stabilization, with current period price reduction. PG&E clearly gets it. I was successful in introducing and inserting the financial hedging option into the Gas Agreement. Both PG&E and SDG&E are very supportive of such an option as they are currently prohibited from entering into such arrangements. It is less clear if the large QFs are supportive. Their primary goal is to find a safe harbor from the Wood decision for the next five years. I also believe the proposed gas procurement structure provides some option value to the larger QFs. Although it looks like our language will be in the Gas Agreement, I think we need to get some language in the bill itself. I am working with Sandi and Mike Day to make that happen. We may also want to add the concept of economic dispatch to the bill. Mike, do you have any suggested language that I could forward to Sandi and Mike Day? Finally, I suggest we try and set up individual meetings with the utilities (including SCE) to discuss our ideas further. I'm not sure what other conversations are occurring with the utilities, but I would be happy to set up the meetings with the appropriate people. Thanks, Mark Alan Comnes 02/27/2001 08:32 PM 
Despite the fact the bill, by itself, does not guarantee payment for overdue receivables, the QFs on today's call decided to go forward and push for SBX 47 irrespective of the progress on SBX 33.  A press conference is planned for Friday by IEP.  Bowen, who heads up the first committee that this bill will go through will have hearings on this bill on Tuesday at the earliest. Jan S-J asked every QF to fax to IEP a description of all QF generation and the zip code of each project so that they can begin lobbying specific legislators.  A significant PR push is planned. SBX 47 is opposed by SCE.  PG&E's position appears more ambivalent.  One angle would be to try to get PG&E to support Enron's swap/SC language and make inclusion of such language a condition of PG&E's support. GAC 
Guys -- Spoke with Dave Duran (lead dealmaker) about Project INGA.  He is considering purchasing fleet of QFs.  Exposure to CA - SCE.  Need to make sure that we understand the deal model and regulatory / bankruptcy assumptions. I've asked John Neslage to get with RAC Underwriting (Chip Schneider) to make sure that we see the economics.  Please help John as much as possible. Thanks, 
I recommend that we ask MRW to do a quick and dirty (nothing more than $10k) to quantify Steve's qualitative analysis.  Good to have before we fight this out at FERC.  If someone internal can do it, great. Thoughts? Jim 
Jeff, In order for California to ""shut its doors"" it must open its interconnections with the rest of the west and become a Texas-like electrical island.  This they cannot do.  California has a substantial investment in units located in Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.  The lights would go out in California if they opened the ties.  In the 1970's there was a hue and cry over loop flow, with California claiming that it was being injured by others, particularly by the interior systems trading practices, however they never considered opening the ties, because the benefits of interconnection were so large that the ""cost"" of loop flow was far exceeded by the value of regional trade, i.e., they are economically interdependent. If such a foolish thing were done and California full ""closed its doors"" by opening its ties, cost would go up in the Northwest, in California and all the rest of the Western System.  There are ""gains for trade"" which accrue to all parties from interconnection.  The trade is more complicated than just summer/winter peaks (seasonal load diversity) there is also seasonal resource diversity (Spring run off effects) and finally there opportunity to capitalize on storage vs base load thermal operations.  I will address the last point first to illustrate the complexity of the trading patterns. The interior west (Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico) has large amount of base load coal plants.  As load drops off in those areas, the energy flows to the coast to back off peaking plants and to back off hydro. The reduction of hydro production allows night time reservoir refill which can be used to meet peak load in the Northwest and California.  This can be seen in the attached file, which contains a set of plots for hourly flow on the Pacific DC Intertie Jun97, Dec 97, Jun 98, Dec 98, Jun 99, Dec 99, Jun00.  In these plots the clear day/night exchange of energy can be seen, especially in the Jun00 plot when sales are being made to California in the day and to the Northwest at night.  This day to night storage exchange benefits lowers costs for everyone. On top of this daily/weekly cycle, there is the seasonal shift in load diversity you noted.  For the Northwest, its peak load occurs when energy production is the lowest -- during the winter.  As a stand alone system, the Pacific Northwest (i.e., the Columbia Drainage area) is energy constrained. The hydro in that area does not produce enough energy to meet annual needs. There is plenty of generating capacity to meet any peak, but not enough to total water flow.  Energy imports from Wyoming and Montana (e.g. Colstrip and Bridger) are required to allow the Pacific Northwest to meet its annual energy requirement.  With these energy inputs from the coal fields, the seasonal water budget can be arranged to get the most value out of the hydro system, although fish, navigation, irrigation, etc. impose an increasing number of constraints.  Energy imports from in the winter from the South help to meet this energy balance during the winter so water can be reserved until the snow pack is better know in early Spring.  Some of the sales to the Northwest from California during the winter are a result of displacement from Desert Southwest energy moving through California and then up the Interties to the Northwest. Finally, the Spring run off/fish flush when production on the river is at a maximum and load in the Northwest is down.  The sale of these surpluses paid for the Pacific Intertie lines and remain important to the entire system. Much system maintenance of base load units has been historically been planned to take advantage of this factor.  Again both California and the Northwest benefit from this trade. In all cases, the parties would be worse off if the ties were open and everyone was on their own.  The Northwest may be capacity long, but it is typically energy short, even in flush hydro years.  The winter energy imports from the South hold Northwest costs down just as spring run off sales to the South lower energy costs in California.  California cannot craft a solo solution that ignores the rest of the West.  It is probably hard to decide who would be worst off if California ""closed its doors"".  It is only clear that total cost would rise in both California and the rest of the West from which it divorced itself. I hope this rambling response comes at the question you raise. Steve Jeff Dasovich@ENRON Sent by: Jeff Dasovich@ENRON 02/28/2001 11:35 AM 
To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems to always be tied to this notion that ""California is a net importer, even in the winter.""  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets. Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion: If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has developed over the years. To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist. The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the summer. Let's take two scenarios: 1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California. Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking. The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California closes its doors. 2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power. I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW (e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the question that Jim asks. With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW is long---how can California closing it doors not increase the PNW's cost of power? Best, Jeff James D Steffes 02/28/2001 08:05 AM 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
FYI.  Info on Gov Davis meeting with Wall Street. Jim 
This is one of the better overviews of all the issues from CSFB. . 
Attached please find a changed Talking Points - 1. Tries to better finesse the rate increase proposal by limiting increase to 10%; 2. Corrects the cost of new generation - 4,000 MW costs $3.6 billion not $360 million; 3. Clarifies that CDWR's problem is paying off the debt, not just paying for electricity. Thanks, Jim 
Takeover 
Attached is a set of draft talking points for Lay to discuss with Governor Davis related to not opposing California's takeover of the transmission network.  Please let me know if anyone has any comments. Jim 
Please review and respond as quickly as possible. Jim 
here is the final Jim 
Here is a slightly reformatted note (1 page) that also adds Competitive Default Supply.  Give me your comments ASAP. It sure doesn't look too good for the forces of ""right"". Jim 
Attached below are talking points for tomorrow morning's meeting with Dave Delainey.  Please let me know if you have anything additional to add, or if you want to make a suggestion regarding what already is there.  I know there is a very slight formatting error on the second page, but we will get that corrected first thing in the morning. Thanks John 
It seems to me that this information leads one to conclude that the value of an open transmission network is that California does not have to build 5,000 MW of power plant (4,500 MW max input + 10%) in state.  In other words, if California were to disconnect from the grid, someone would have to build additional power plants in-state. The cost to California consumers is therefore the annual carrying cost of 10 500 MW plants (made even more expensive after California expropriates the current fleet of merchant generation). From the perspective of the remainder of the West, the question still remains - if California does go it alone, what is the economic impact?  Other than legal arguments about Interstate Commerce, why should the Federal Government want to continue to pursue open acess?  This is the hard question that we need to answer. Jim Alan Comnes@ECT 02/27/2001 09:40 PM 
Jim, Jeff: Jim asked me in a voice mail what would be the cost to California of moving 
While we don't need to do any lobbying on this bill, if anyone hears any information about chances for success it would be good to get the info to me.  Enron Wind has an interest in seeing this bill move forward. Thanks, Jim 
Despite the fact the bill, by itself, does not guarantee payment for overdue receivables, the QFs on today's call decided to go forward and push for SBX 47 irrespective of the progress on SBX 33.  A press conference is planned for Friday by IEP.  Bowen, who heads up the first committee that this bill will go through will have hearings on this bill on Tuesday at the earliest. Jan S-J asked every QF to fax to IEP a description of all QF generation and the zip code of each project so that they can begin lobbying specific legislators.  A significant PR push is planned. SBX 47 is opposed by SCE.  PG&E's position appears more ambivalent.  One angle would be to try to get PG&E to support Enron's swap/SC language and make inclusion of such language a condition of PG&E's support. GAC 
Michael Tribolet held a conference call this evening to discuss Enron Wind's legal obligations given SCE's non-payment.  In general, given the legal structure of Enron Wind, some action may be required from a partnership perspective. The key next step is action on SB47 - Interim Short-Term Avoided Cost Methodology.  Enron Wind is unlikely to take any action if real progress is made by this Friday.  If not, a different action plan will occur.   This may change if other renewable QFs sue (for instance FP&L - who has retained counsel but don't want to be the first to take action). They will begin to draft some pleadings to prepare for legal action (in case this is necessary). Michael Tribolet is on point to hear if EWC takes any action and we should be apprised before they move. Jim 
The following items are available or being produced by Enron resources to support the on-going activities related to California.  If I've missed anything, let me know. When anyone needs new material, please feel free to contact John Neslage. John Neslage will keep the material and should be apprised of any new material.  John's number is 713-853-6827. Thanks, Jim ------------------------------------------ READY TO GO Steve Kean Letter to Sen. Feinstein  RE:  California Status Steve Kean Letter to Sen. Wyden RE:  Information Release Enron Fixes for California (attached) CERA Highlights on California Crisis IN PRODUCTION One Page Fact Sheet - Buy Books, Not the Grid One Page Fact Sheet - Enron's Opposition to Cal ISO Takeover by California Politicans (Mirant v. ISO) One Page Fact Sheet - How Big a Blackout for Summer 2002? One Page Fact Sheet - Enron's Global Solution EPA Package - Necessary Fixes to Increase Supply 
Here are the facts to be converted into Talking Points / Facts Sheet for CA TEAM. Thanks, Jim 
Attached is a memo comparing the CEC's forecasted supply and a more realistic look at what additional resources might be available this summer. The bottom line is that: 1.  The CEC significantly underestimates the outages that may occur this summer.  They estimate in their 5,000 MW supply deficit for the summer that expected outages will be around 3,000MW.  However, November and December saw significantly higher outage levels.  (7,265 MWs) The FERC has investigated these outages and found no improprieties- just that the plants are overtaxed from running at higher than normal capacities. 2.  There are a lot of uncertainties surrounding the 1,244 MWs of projected supply from rerating/restarting existing thermal and renewable projects.  It is very unclear how much of this will be able to come on line by this summer, if at all.  As evidenced by the e-mail I sent out this morning, local communities may be very opposed to restarting shut down units.  In addition, these units are likely to be uneconomical. 3.  In the existing resource pool, there are roughly 1,430 MWs of peaking or other generation units that are running up against their operating hour limitations from air quality regulations.  The Governor has ordered the local air quality districts to address these restrictions,  We are beginning to seem some movement; however, the US EPA has yet to weigh in on these relaxed standards. 4.  The distributed generation/back-up generation capacity to make up some of the shortfall is still an unknown.  While there has been some relaxing of the limitations on run hours for back-up generation at ""essential public services"" the increase in DG is expected from ""clean"" sources, not diesel emergency generators. 5.  The CEC is doing everything it can to get 50+ MW peaking units on-line by this summer.  They are promising a 21-day permit application approval process and are offering to pay half of the cost of offsets, for ""clean"" sources of generation in critical areas. Please let me know if you have any questions or need additional information. CEC's Summer Forecasted Peak Demand - Resource Balance: List of Peakers running into their operating hour limitations: Also available in hard copy format only: (please e-mail me your fax number if you'd like a copy) Table 1:  Fully Executed CA ISO Summer Reliability Agreements (the ISO Peaking Facilities) Table 2:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Renewables Construction Status Summary Table 3:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Rerate of Non-CEC Projects Table 4:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - CEC Rerate Status Summary Table 5:  Idle Biomass Plants Potentially Capable of Restart Mary Schoen Environmental Strategies Enron Corp 
Here is some background to give to Delainey. Jim 
The proposed purchase of the PGE and SCE's transmission grids have vastly different short term liquidity effects for PGE and SCE.   If the current proposal is at 2.3x book, and assuming the first mortgage bond holders want complete repayment in return for releasing their liens, the numbers (at 12-99) fall out: in millions                   PGE        SCE Book Value                    1.43       1.90 Multiple of Book              2.3x       2.3x Cash Price                   $3.29      $4.37 -First Mortgage Bonds        $3.35      $1.18 Resulting liquidity         ($0.06)     $3.19 Note that the first mortgage holders may release their liens in return for partial payment based on remaining value.  Nonetheless, PGE's situation is not as flexible. 
FYI.  Here are letters Enron (Steve Kean) sent to US Senators about real solutions for California.  The Feinstein / Murkowski letters are very good overviews of our recommendations on what to do and what not to do. Jim 
Attached are the letters sent to Senators Wyden, Feinstein & Murkowski. 
I am forwarding some Wall Street comments from Kathryn Corbally related to the Transmission buyout. Looks like they view it as very favorable - not a major hit against EPS tied to full recovery of remaining undercollection. Not sure yet if they incorporate the going forward - maybe SCE doesn't want any merchant obligations? Jim 
Jim, Have sent you three notes that show some level of support to activity in California - its probably a little bias since there are a few reports out there that say quote the 'devil is in the details' and quote 'the odds of bankruptcty remain in the 50% range.' Note1 09:42am EST 26-Feb-01 ABN AMRO Inc. (Ford,Daniel F. 212/258-1548) CPN DYN EIX One Down Two to Go One Down Two to Go ABN AMRO -- Research Notes 
Companies Mentioned: CPN, DYN#, EIX, PCG, SRE Analyst:  Daniel F. Ford, CFA  212/258-1548 Po Cheng, CFA  212/258-1709 ============================================================================== = 
Increase? 
Jeff -- Some questions - 1. The $10 Billion looks low.  Is there anyway to use something the UDCs=20 would have on file? 2. What interest rate is embedded within the mortgage?  Does this assume th= e=20 benefits of securitization? 3. What are the appropriate rate mechanisms?  The UDCs will need to be able= =20 to convince Wall Street that this rate component is ""good"" for the collecti= on. 4. We need to include going forward costs of CDWR in this model - how much= =20 money will rates need to raise to cover current expenses? 5. Does the kwh load include Direct Access customers?   Will this rate=20 component be non-bypassable? Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 02/26/2001 06:50 PM =20 
ease? Greetings: Please review the attached.  It's a summary I've put together of a very=20 lengthy analysis MRW did for us over the weekend.  I've also attached the= =20 considerably lengthier MRW memo for those who'd like to see it.  The tables= =20 included in the summary are pulled directly from the MRW memo.  The analysi= s=20 only addresses the utilities undercollection (i.e., solvency) and doesn't= =20 address any additional increases that might result from DWR's buying=20 activities. The Bottom Line =06=15 By raising average rates 10% over a 10-year period, California could= 1)=20 return the utilities to solvency, and 2) help close the  supply-demand gap = by=20 providing customers with better price signals. =06=15 California could achieve these goals under this new rate structure a= nd at=20 the same time exclude one-third of residential  customers from any increase= s.=20 If California chose not to exclude any customers from the new rate structur= e,=20 California  would only need to raise average rates by about 8.8%. =06=15 This level of increase is in line with increases enacted in other st= ates=20 (e.g., Washington: 28-34%; Montana: 4.5-32%; Idaho:  6.0-24%; Nevada:=20 7-12.5%; New Mexico 12%). We'll need to look at it critically and try to shoot holes in it before goi= ng=20 public with the numbers as part of our broader effort, but it offers a=20 reasonable benchmark against which to judge alternatives (like spending the= =20 kids lunch money on crumbling, broken down transmission systems). Please provide feedback as soon as possible, and perhaps, Paul we conclude= =20 the MRW work on the agenda for discussion on tomorrow's daily conference ca= ll. Best, Jeff - Undercollection assessment final.doc 
For those that have not seen this analysis, attached please find a note from Mary Schoen detailing the serious physical shortage problems that may occur this Summer in CA. Jim 
Attached is a memo comparing the CEC's forecasted supply and a more realistic look at what additional resources might be available this summer. The bottom line is that: 1.  The CEC significantly underestimates the outages that may occur this summer.  They estimate in their 5,000 MW supply deficit for the summer that expected outages will be around 3,000MW.  However, November and December saw significantly higher outage levels.  (7,265 MWs) The FERC has investigated these outages and found no improprieties- just that the plants are overtaxed from running at higher than normal capacities. 2.  There are a lot of uncertainties surrounding the 1,244 MWs of projected supply from rerating/restarting existing thermal and renewable projects.  It is very unclear how much of this will be able to come on line by this summer, if at all.  As evidenced by the e-mail I sent out this morning, local communities may be very opposed to restarting shut down units.  In addition, these units are likely to be uneconomical. 3.  In the existing resource pool, there are roughly 1,430 MWs of peaking or other generation units that are running up against their operating hour limitations from air quality regulations.  The Governor has ordered the local air quality districts to address these restrictions,  We are beginning to seem some movement; however, the US EPA has yet to weigh in on these relaxed standards. 4.  The distributed generation/back-up generation capacity to make up some of the shortfall is still an unknown.  While there has been some relaxing of the limitations on run hours for back-up generation at ""essential public services"" the increase in DG is expected from ""clean"" sources, not diesel emergency generators. 5.  The CEC is doing everything it can to get 50+ MW peaking units on-line by this summer.  They are promising a 21-day permit application approval process and are offering to pay half of the cost of offsets, for ""clean"" sources of generation in critical areas. Please let me know if you have any questions or need additional information. CEC's Summer Forecasted Peak Demand - Resource Balance: List of Peakers running into their operating hour limitations: Also available in hard copy format only: (please e-mail me your fax number if you'd like a copy) Table 1:  Fully Executed CA ISO Summer Reliability Agreements (the ISO Peaking Facilities) Table 2:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Renewables Construction Status Summary Table 3:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - Rerate of Non-CEC Projects Table 4:  Summer 2001 Supply Options - CEC Rerate Status Summary Table 5:  Idle Biomass Plants Potentially Capable of Restart Mary Schoen Environmental Strategies Enron Corp 
We all have e-mail lists that include some people but not others.  We need one master list to make sure that w/o the daily calls the information is getting to the right people. Marcia, could you please work to build one list that we can all copy? 
As a reminder, the daily call on California has ended. We will now have a single weekly call on Monday at 10:30 am Houston time. Updates will be provided through e-mail as required. 
My comments on the fax -- Sec 1 is horrific in that it tells new generation that they must offer their energy to the DWR at ""just and reasonable cost base price"".   First, this sends the wrong signal to developers.  Second, I have no idea what a J&R cost based ""price"" is?  Who determines this?  Finally, Sec 2 would require that all generation in the state has to provide a maintenance schedule to the PUC - why?  What happens if an unplanned outage occurs? This is a bad device that does nothing to 'increase supply or decrease demand'. 
1. Legislative Update - What is Enron's message on 6x and 33x? 2. Gov Davis Statement on Direct Access - Sue Mara 3. Cal PX Chargeback Settlement Discussions - Any News? 4. SDG&E Surcharge Update 
Tom Hoatson, et al - What would PJM say in response?  What is their current thinking?  Also, given that the FTR process may leave some FTRs ""unfunded"", this would seem to move people away from cash flow devices?  How would PJM need to change so this doesn't happen? Jim Steve Walton@ECT 02/09/2001 09:30 AM 
Jim, The PJM rules give monthly overcollection of congestion charges to those who pay the access fees (mostly the incumbent utilities) but simply short the FTR holder if there is an undercollection of congestion charges.  In addition all the auction revenues go to reduce access fees.  As a result, an FTR holder is at risk in any month when they congestion charge collections are smaller than payments due FTRs.  The accounting is done on an hourly basis with any excess credited at the end of the month.  I have attached the PJM FTR manual.  The details of the settlement procedure are covered in Section 5. This procedure benefits the incumbents, since their transmission cost is reduced by both auction revenues and monthly excess collections but never at risk for undercollection.  You have a gate that lets in benefits but keeps out risk.  In New York, for all its other flaws, the under/over collection reconciliation works in both directions.  This is fairer, but there could still be an annual shortfall.  Contrary to advertisement, the simultaneous feasibility test used in the FTR auction does not guarantee the ability to fund the FTRs issued. To address this potential annual shortfall, we proposed for the e-trans tariff, that the auction revenues be held in escrow between auctions.  If over the year, there was a net shortfall, it should be taken from the auction revenues before the credit is made to reduce the access fees.  This means that the buyers get what they paid for.  The payers of the access fees still get credit for the net gain (auction revenues + monthly collections - FTR payments), without shorting buyers of FTRs. Steve James D Steffes@ENRON 02/09/2001 08:04 AM 
Isn't the problem that PJM is only obligated to pay for these ""negative"" FTRs as much as there is congestion revenues?  What section of the PJM Manuals is involved. Jim 
EPMI bought some FTRs in PJM.  PJM did not pay EPMI appr. $105,000 in Sept and $194,000 in Oct.  PJM told Rebecca Grace at Enron that PJM is revenue deficient and, therefore, not required to pay. In Dec., EPMI was negative $177,000 and they charged us $191,000. Apparently, PJM charged us all the negatives, but did not pay us some of our positives because of the revenue deficiency issue. Tom--Do you know what the rules are about this?  It seems unfair that we can be charges all the negatives, but not get our money on the upside.  Let me know and you or I can call Andy Ott about this.  (Tom Dutta is the commercial trader on this for EPMI.) 
Executive Orders 
Attached is Mary Schoen's analysis of Gov. Davis' Executive Order on expediting siting and maximizing output. I have asked Mary to try and identify the # of MWs that may be impacted by these actions. Jim 
Executive Orders Below is a brief summary of the five Executive Orders issued by Governor Davis on 2/9/01. For those of you that want the Cliff Notes Version: These Orders appear to be an attempt to accomplish three things: 1.  Expedite Siting for New Powerplants and Expansions or Modifications of Existing Powerplants 2.  Maximize Output and Minimize Outages at Existing Facilities 3.  Centralize Authority and/or Mitigate Issues Impacting Powerplant Siting and Construction The tone is both one of we feel your pain in the complexity of permitting powerplants; and that we will tolerate no excuses for not running at full capacity.  (ie; the carrot and the stick) They also includes some targeted incentives to encourage powerplant operators to sell their power under contract to the State Dept. of Water. Some of the critical issues impacting the effectiveness of these orders will be: - How much capacity is truly ""idling"" and will be able to be brought back on line or increase its output? - Will the state be able to better manage air quality issues and create flexibility within the framework allowed by the Clean Air Act in order to positively change the air quality issues impacting power plant construction and operation? - How quickly can the accelerated permitting procedures be implemented and how soon will we see movements in the market to increase new generation given the other issues in CA? We will continue to analyze the impacts of these orders, but wanted to get information to you in a timely manner. D-22-01  Increased Output/Expedited Siting Mandates CEC exemption from siting requirements for increased output by existing power generators. - limited to less than 50MWs using existing installed capacity b/w 06/01-10/01/01 Expedited processing of applications for certification of existing thermal powerplants that require retooling and a current license to operate. Accelerated review from all agencies involved in the licensing of proposed thermal powerplants. Action by the State Water Resources Control Board  to insure wastewater issues do not preclude thermal powerplants from operating. Requirements for the State Dept. of Water Resources to purchase power from powerplants using renewables and other resources that may currently have not other market for their power. Expires  12/31/01 unless extended Analysis: This Order is intended to take away the excuses for why some powerplants are currently not operating or not operating at full capacity.  It does not waive air quality requirements (they are addressed in a separate order). D-23-01  Appropriate Maintenance and Efficient Operation Requirements ISO Requirements: - Require generators to submit planned outage schedules to the ISO - Prepare a coordinated outage plan to be updated quarterly - Identify generation maintenance criteria to be met by generation facilities - Maintain records of any unplanned generation facility outages and provide those records to Electricity Oversight Board - Conduct independent audits of generation facilities that have fallen below performance benchmarks est. by the ISO - Consider seeking the authority under state law of federal regulation to impose fines on those generation facility owners whose generation facilities have fallen     below performance benchmarks est. by the ISO Requires that the Electricity Oversight Board review the ISO Tariffs and Protocols to identify any necessary revisions to increase the ISO's ability to ensure adequate power during peak demand. Instructs the CPUC to ensure that generation facilities still owned by utilities are operated as required to maintain reliability. Requires the Electricity Oversight Board to propose legislation to expand its authority to issue audits of generation facilities that do not meet est. benchmarks for availability and performance, and issue fines against those plants, after a hearing. Analysis: Again, the tone of this order is that the state won't tolerate outages as an excuse for not generating.  It is also an attempt to better manage planned outages to prevent situations that happened last fall when too many plants where off-line for maintenance at the same time. D-24-01  Air Pollution Flexibility and Mitigation Measures Mandates that local air districts modify emissions limits that limit hours of operation in air quality permits to ensure that power generation facilities that provide power under contract to the Dept. of Water Resources are not restricted in their ability to operate. - Requires air districts to require a mitigation fee for all applicable emissions in excess of the previous limits - If air districts do not comply, the Board (CARB?) shall impose modifications on the permits in lieu of districts The Board shall establish an emissions reduction credit bank using emissions reductions from all available sources: - Credits will be made available to powerplant peaking sources that need emissions offsets in order to add new or expand peaking capacity for the Summer Peak Season in 2001 - In the case of powerplants that agree to sell their power under contract to the Dept. of Water Resources, CA will make available where necessary and available the required emissions credits at up to a 50 percent reduction, - In order to maximize the amount of electrical generating capacity, emissions reduction credits for new generation capacity shall be provided to facilities where necessary and available. - Proceeds from the sales of these emission reduction credits shall be made available to fund emissions reduction programs in the air district where the new or expanded facility is located. Expires 12/31/2001 unless extended Analysis: This order requires the air districts to modify permit limits on run hours for air quality reasons by allowing those powerplants that sell to the Dept. of Water to pay a mitigation fee and creates an emission reduction credit bank available for use by other sources.  There are a lot of details that remain to be clarified, including how the state is going to locate emissions reduction credits where developers were unsuccessful.  However, it is a step in the right direction by creating flexibility and beginning to drive authority back to the state level. D-25-01  Acceleration the Construction and Upgrading of Approved Powerplants Expedites review and approval of post-certification amendments to increase output from thermal powerplants by the Energy Commission. Authorizes the Energy Commission to suspends the requirements of the statutes and regulations that normally control post-certifications to the extent that they impact prompt mitigation of this emergency. Requires the Energy Commission to establish milestones for both initiation of construction within one year of certification, and for the construction phase of the project.  Failure to meet milestones without prior approval by Energy Commission based on a showing of good cause shall constitute forfeiture of the certification. Expires 12/31/01 unless extended Analysis Again, no excuses for not getting your powerplant modifications approved and completed in a timely manner. D-26-01  Accelerating the Availability of New Generation Sources Requires all relevant agencies shorten the review periods to 7 days for required environmental impact documents prepared under CEQA for all powerplants that are not subject to the Energy Commission (under 50MWs) and that are proposed to be on line by summer 2001. Energy Commission shall expedite its licensing process in the following ways: - Expedite processing of applications for peaking or renewable powerplants for construction and operation by July 31, 2001. -Peaking or renewable powerplants that have a current contract with the ISO and can be online by July 2001 may also apply to be permitted by the Energy Commission under the emergency siting process. -Rules which provide a license for a simple cycle thermal powerplant within four months, shall apply to any proposed simple-cycle thermal powerplant that can be brought on line by August 31, 2002  and that have an application for certification complete by Dec. 31. 2001. -Under regulations for the expedited licensing of powerplants, emission offset credits are not required at the time of filing an application for certification -The Energy Commission shall conduct a study of potential peaking power sites in the state and prepare a report by 02/21/01  identifying those areas of the state that would benefit from the installation of peaking powerplants to augment supplies and ensure reliability through the summer of 2003. IOUs must complete necessary interconnection studies within 7 days of receipt of completed application. Expires 12/31/01 unless extended. Analysis: This is an attempt to accelerate the permitting of smaller sources and 
Has the CPUC put forward and timetable to act?  I would assume that this Commission would be ready to cut off DA as soon as possible. Jim Harry Kingerski 02/09/2001 05:31 PM 
when will the PUC make effective the restriction on Direct Access called for in AB1x? expected date (50/50) early date (25/75) late date (75/25) EES is using this informed opinion to value risk exposure to new deals in San Diego being rescinded. My answers: April 15 Mar 1 May 30 
Attached is the Order placing a TRO against the Cal PX related to our collateral and the chargebacks.  Testimony before the Judge is scheduled on Thursday, Feb 15. Jim 
Received: from mcafee.bracepatt.com by bracepatt.com; Fri, 09 Feb 2001 19:44:07 -0600 Received: FROM mail.qeuo.com BY mcafee.bracepatt.com ; Fri Feb 09 19:51:51 2001 -0600 X-Proxy: keymaster.bracepatt.com protected Received: from LADOMAIN-Message_Server by mail.qeuo.com with Novell_GroupWise; Fri, 09 Feb 2001 17:39:25 -0800 Message-Id: <sa842b4d.032@mail.qeuo.com> X-Mailer: Novell GroupWise 5.5.4 
I am trying to put some figures together for Dave Delainey First, does anyone know how many MW of capacity that would be available for CA this Summer if there were limited or no restrictions on environmental permits.  I understand (via Mary Schoen) that the regional air quality districts have either expanded the hours (200 to 500) for small units.  Does anyone have a good number on how many MW this allows to operate into the market? Also, does anyone know anything about any power plants idled (for whatever reason) recently that could be re-started? 
Rick, thought you might enjoy this alternative theory on the root cause of Cal's problem.  Ray 
Feb. 2, 2001, 8:06PM The rest of us should tell California to go fly a kite By DAVE BARRY When we consider the serious electricity shortage in California, our reaction, as concerned Americans, is: Ha ha! No, seriously, we are alarmed. Because history teaches us that whatever happens to California -- smog, road rage, tofu, coffee that is mainly air, cell  phones, the belief that abdominal muscles are attractive, Shirley MacLaine,  people taking in-line skating seriously, grandmothers sporting new and  flagrantly inappropriate bosoms -- eventually happens to the rest of the nation.  Thus it is vital that we analyze the California electricity shortage and see if  we can develop a workable solution before we become bored and change the  subject. Our first question is: What, exactly, is electricity? When we look in our Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, we see that ""electricity"" is defined  as a ""class of physical phenomena resulting from the existence of charge  and from the interaction of charges."" What does this mean, in lay-person's  terms? It means that whoever wrote the Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia is a big, fat dope. Because we know from our junior-high-school science training that electricity is actually a fast-moving herd of electrons, which are tiny one-celled animals that can survive in almost any environment except inside a  double-A battery, where they die within minutes. Electrons are formed when clouds rub together and become excited. This was proved in the famous experiment wherein Benjamin Franklin flew a kite during a  thunderstorm and was almost killed. Encouraged by this success, Franklin went on  to conduct many more electrical experiments, including rolling a hoop in a  thunderstorm, playing hopscotch in a thunderstorm and doing somersaults in a  thunderstorm. Finally one night he was caught wearing only a bonnet and playing Mister Pooter Rides the Pony in a thunderstorm, leaving the authorities with no choice  but to arrest him and make him ambassador to France.  Nevertheless, Franklin had proved an important scientific point, which is  that electricity originates inside clouds. There it forms into lightning, which  is attracted to the earth by golfers. After entering the ground, the electricity hardens into coal, which, when 
FYI. Jim 
FYI: Low initial success rate. 
FYI -- Five of PGE's 25 suppliers agreed to execute the PG&E's proposed security agreement, including two Dynegy entities.  Two entities (a Goldman, Sachs affiliate and Western Gas Resources) shut off gas supplies immediately upon termination of the DOE order.  PGE indicated a need to continue to negotiating with other suppliers for additional gas suppliers, so they may come around. Travis McCullough Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street EB 3817 Houston Texas 77002 Phone:  (713) 853-1575 Fax: (713) 646-3490 
WorkProduct 
Ron - If you have any conclusions on this, please get to Jeff Dasovich.  He is calling Mike Peevey to try and get CDWR to take over the contracts fully (including our LCs). Jim ""Ronald Carroll"" <rcarroll@bracepatt.com> 02/07/2001 03:54 PM 
Attorney Work Product  (Document link: Mary Hain) I think it may also be significant that the governor exercised his authority over contracts, as opposed to real property.  Who ever heard of 
Work Product Although I don't yet have all the facts, Steve Hall said that late yesterday (Friday) afternoon, the Governor exercised eminent domain over the IOU forward contracts that the PX had been in the process of auctioning to pay PX participants.  I would like Bracewell to research at least the following two possible ways this action is unlawful.  First, this violates the banking provisions of the PX tariff (Section 6).  These provisions requires the PX to hold all PX accounts in trust for PX participants. Second, these are wholesale contracts and the State only has the right to exercise eminent domain concerning retail service.  I don't have any law to support the second idea but think it should be researched nonetheless. 
In the attached article, there is reference to the state taking control of some Utility transmission asset as a quid pro quo for bailing out the Utilities  (Senate President Pro Tem John Burton (D-San Francisco), who argues that California should take control of the transmission grid).  While our understanding of the current politics is that many politicians don't want that trade, it is not out of the question. Having the state take over transmission would make all transmission non-jurisdictional to FERC within California. Given that the State really wants ""something"", does anyone have any ideas as to what these companies may have as a viable trade?   One thought - I remember reading that PG&E NEG had taken out an option on 20,000 MW of turbines last year.  Maybe the state could require PG&E NEG to sell (implicit deal) these turbines at cost to anyone siting in CA? I'd appreciate any other thoughts that people have.  Not sure where this issue goes over time, but we need to help the politicians come up with a better answer than the transmission plant. Jim 
Long article...Mentions Calpine offering 1000 MW at slightly higher than 5.5 cents/kwh. 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001 |  </cgi-bin/print.cgi> Print this story </cgi-bin/print.cgi> Davis Vows Plan for Edison, PG&E The governor says that by the end of the week he will have a strategy to help the utilities avoid bankruptcy. By DAN MORAIN and NANCY RIVERA BROOKS, Times Staff Writers SACRAMENTO--Gov. Gray Davis said Monday he and legislative leaders would have a plan by week's end to avert the bankruptcy of the state's two biggest utilities by trading ratepayer-backed bond money for utility assets. ""The drop-dead date is clearly Feb. 12,"" Davis said. That is when a federal judge is set to hear a lawsuit by Southern California Edison, joined by Pacific Gas & Electric, that could lead to sharp rate hikes for consumers unless a rescue plan is in place. Momentum has been building for a plan in which the state would get control of the utility transmission lines in return for issuing bonds to give the utilities a cash infusion. But Senate President Pro Tem John Burton (D-San Francisco), who argues that California should take control of the transmission grid, said he did not share Davis' urgency to cut a deal this week. The wrangling comes as the state faces the end early Wednesday of what likely is the last federal emergency order requiring that independent power generators sell electricity in California. The Bush administration insists it will not extend the order. ""We're not even asking,"" Davis spokesman Steven Maviglio said. Several such orders issued in the past two months have forced power generators to keep electricity flowing to California, even though Edison and PG&E were unable to pay the skyrocketing wholesale costs of electricity. But the federal emergency orders are less vital now that California has relieved the utilities of having to buy power--at a cost to taxpayers of roughly $45 million a day. Davis, meanwhile, plans to announce today that California has entered into its first long-term contracts to buy power from independent generators, thereby beginning its shift away from the reliance on spot markets. At least one firm, Calpine Corp., was on the verge late Monday of signing a deal to provide the state with up to 1,000 megawatts for roughly 10 years. One megawatt is enough to serve roughly 1,000 homes. The cost could not be determined, but it is believed to be slightly above the 5.5 cents per kilowatt-hour that Davis had hoped for. ""Clearly, we are no longer waiting for someone else to solve our problem or do something to bail us out,"" Davis said at a Capitol news conference Monday. ""We are doing everything within our power as a state to right this ship. We're not waiting for someone to throw us a long pass. We're going to solve 
Mary informs me that the Cal ISO has filed (1-30-01) with FERC that it will not be filing a new Congestion Management proposal at FERC as required in previous Orders. She thinks now is an opportune time to challenge the legitimacy of the new Cal ISO Board (Gov Davis' actions).   I also think that we need to put forward our own solution (if we have one). I would appreciate everyone's opinion as to the (a) likelihood that FERC would finally address the matter, (b) end result if FERC does deal with the issue, (c) and the politics in Sacramento / CPUC of taking this position. Also, who else is going to weigh in on our proposal? Jim 
Federal Govt Role 
FYI.   Commentary that calls George W. Bush to task for not getting more competition into the electricity markets. Jim 
PennFuture's E-cubed is a commentary biweekly email publication  concerning the current themes and trends in the energy market. February 5, 2001 Vol. 3, No. 3 Breaking Out of the  Box Two weeks after his inauguration, President Bush's  electricity policy is already emerging from the crucible of California and is  characterized by obedience to free market ideology and a federalism that  confines the federal government to a limited, backseat role. We are  told that California's crisis is an isolated event, the result  of California's unique mistakes. In this view, the federal government  neither contributed to the crisis nor has a major role to play in solving it. Wholesale market caps at any level are declared to be an inappropriate  intrusion into free markets that can only make things worse. Moreover, the  appointment of Curt Hebert as the new Chairman of the Federal Energy  Regulatory Commission (FERC) signals that FERC will not assert itself to  ensure that wholesale electricity markets are genuinely competitive and that  the principles of open access and comparability are more than legal fictions.  Finally, environmental regulation is fingered as a primary obstacle to  adequate supplies and reasonable prices. This emerging policy begins with  a misdiagnosis. In fact, the mess in California and the West has roots in  huge policy mistakes made by both the state and federal governments. One such  federal mistake was a 1995 FERC decision that blocked a competitive  solicitation for 1400 megawatts of new generation in California. Skyrocketing  retail electric prices in more and more states due to wholesale market  failure will soon make clear to all that the nation's electricity problems  start in Washington DC with failed wholesale market policies. The hot seat  will then shift from Governor Gray Davis to federal officials and it will  become apparent that strict obedience to free market ideology or a limited  role for federal authority will not?cure?past mistakes in electric  policy. President Bush inherits an America where wholesale electricity  markets are isolated and dysfunctional - ticking time bombs planted beneath  his Presidency. The fuses on these bombs were lit with the passage of the  Energy Policy Act (EPACT) in 1992, which deregulated the price of generation  in the wholesale electric market but left FERC with the job of creating a  genuinely competitive wholesale market which would restrain prices through  competitive pressures. But neither FERC nor Congress has ensured the free  movement of electricity in interstate commerce or workably competitive  markets since the passage of EPACT. Market power abuses are rife, and most  parts of the country don't even have the benefit of an independent system  operator to ensure nondiscrimination and open access to the transmission  grids. Even so, FERC will not compel formation of or utility membership in  independent system operators. Worse yet, in the face of opposition from  states and several powerful utilities, Congress has fiddled its thumbs on  national restructuring legislation for five years and has not required a  transition to retail competition in every state. By failing to open retail  markets, Congress has ensured that wholesale electricity markets cannot be  effectively disciplined by demand changes or long-term retail contracts.  Meanwhile, states behave as if they are electric islands immune from the  results of failed federal stewardship of wholesale markets. Foolishly, they have become a principal stumbling block to optimally sized regional  power markets and encourage FERC timidity by banging the drums of states'  rights on Capitol Hill. To this day, with 58,000 megawatts under its  control, PJM is the largest wholesale market or free-trade zone for  electricity in the country and it amounts to no more than 6 percent of the  nation's electric industry. The remaining 94 percent of the industry are  divided into hundreds of wholesale markets with unique rules for pricing and  operation. So nine years after EPACT, the bombs have begun to go off,  first in California, where disastrous state policies mixed with federal  mistakes have created a spectacular explosion, then in Washington and Idaho,  two states that have not passed retail restructuring laws, where retail rates  are going up as much as 84 percent and 29 percent respectively. And it's only  a matter of time before these electricity time bombs explode in other  states. The reality is that both the federal government's actions and  inaction have made problems worse in California and elsewhere. Denying that  fact thwarts any efforts to fix the problem, as does attacking environmental  protection or endlessly repeating free market and states' rights  ideology. Hopefully it's not heresy but it must be said:  Strong federal action and wise intervention are required if  wholesale markets are to be stabilized and  made competitive. First, the federal government must  organize the country into 10 or 12 regional wholesale electric markets, each  administered by an Independent System Operator that has the legal duty and  necessary authority to ensure that each market is reliable and genuinely  competitive. Each ISO must have clear responsibility to identify and prevent  market power abuses in order to protect public confidence in electricity  markets and prevent more autopsies like that now being done on California's  effort to deregulate. Second, and absolutely crucial for the formation of  competitive electricity markets, the federal government should require that  every state equip its retail customers with time-of-use metering and  appliance control devices (thermostat resetting and others) which increase  the price elasticity of demand. Third, electric markets cannot be  competitive if either the wholesale or retail market remain closed. All  customers should be allowed to choose electricity suppliers by a certain,  specific date. Fourth, fuel diversity and clean energy have a clear value  in these markets - federal restructuring legislation should promote fuel  diversity as well as address a host of major environmental problems by  establishing reasonable renewable energy requirements. Fifth, the  federal government must face up to the fact that in periods of peak demand or  system emergency conditions, suppliers currently have almost total pricing  power and that high wholesale price caps are an immediate necessity. At such  times, the price curve looks like a ""J,"" with prices unlimited by demand changes climbing straight up. The three wholesale markets that are administered by viable independent system operators - PJM, New York, and New  England - all operate with a $1,000 per megawatt-hour price cap. They use  caps not because they aren't committed to making competition work, but  because demand is not currently responsive to price and because these  emerging markets are vulnerable to strategic bidding that could destroy  public support for more competition. The sternest test of leadership for  a modern politician is to face down his friends and the greatest act of  friendship is to save a friend from himself. The President could lessen the  need for caps by telling some of his friends in the energy industry that they  are behaving like a Marxist caricature of businessmen who only need to be  given enough rope in order to hang themselves. Some wholesale energy  suppliers - by persisting in wholesale markets that cannot limit prices by  competition or demand response to charge $1,000, $2,000, $3,000 or more per  megawatt-hour, prices that greatly exceed any cost or profit requirement -  have triggered a public reaction that could eventually crush them. For  example, in California, the recently passed emergency state  statute ""suspends"" retail direct access and many communities are  understandably beginning the process of forming municipal  utilities. The President must remind wholesale energy suppliers of the  need for restraint while America's dysfunctional wholesale electricity  markets are repaired. Americans deserve true, functional, clean and  affordable competitive electric markets. Because energy bills often consume  at least 10 percent of an average family's income, and up to 50 percent of a  poor household's take-home pay, most Americans have little tolerance for high  energy costs. And, as Jimmy Carter discovered, the families that carry lunch  buckets hold the people in government responsible for energy shortages and  price spikes. President Bush himself seems to sense that energy threatens  his Presidency - electricity alone could be its downfall. Perhaps his talent  for political survival will yet cause the President to change course on  electric policy and break out of the confined ideological box which he  appears on the verge of entering. The fate of his presidency, and our  energy future, may hang in the balance. E-cubed is available for reprint in newspapers and other publications. Authors are available for print or broadcast. Support E-cubed by becoming a  member of PennFuture - visit our secure online membership page at www.pennfuture.org by 
I wanted to follow-up with everyone following yesterday's meeting. It appears to me that we need to develop (1) a better analysis of the four market models - AGL (Steve M), Columbia of Ohio (Janine), Socal Gas (Jeff), NICOR (Roy) - based on some key elements and (2) the key Influence parties in Illinois with 5 layer Influence Circles that we need to be thinking about in this discussion. It would be great if we could get this to Laura for distribution by end of day Friday (realize it's tight). Key elements for Market Models -- 1. Direct Access Allowed?  For What customers?  What timeline? 2. Upstream Capacity resolution - assignment or otherwise?  Are there assets left to optimize 3. Retail pricing - Fixed price vs. PBR (how?) vs. something else? 4. Role of Wholesale Outsourcing Agent (would ENA sell to marketers or utilities or both?) 5. Other Issues Thanks, Jim 
Mary informs me that the Cal ISO has filed (1-30-01) with FERC that it will not be filing a new Congestion Management proposal at FERC as required in previous Orders. She thinks now is an opportune time to challenge the legitimacy of the new Cal ISO Board (Gov Davis' actions).   I also think that we need to put forward our own solution (if we have one). I would appreciate everyone's opinion as to the (a) likelihood that FERC would finally address the matter, (b) end result if FERC does deal with the issue, (c) and the politics in Sacramento / CPUC of taking this position. Also, who else is going to weigh in on our proposal? Jim 
Mary informs me that the Cal ISO has filed (1-30-01) with FERC that it will not be filing a new Congestion Management proposal at FERC as required in previous Orders. She thinks now is an opportune time to challenge the legitimacy of the new Cal ISO Board (Gov Davis' actions).   I also think that we need to put forward our own solution (if we have one). I would appreciate everyone's opinion as to the (a) likelihood that FERC would finally address the matter, (b) end result if FERC does deal with the issue, (c) and the politics in Sacramento / CPUC of taking this position. Also, who else is going to weigh in on our proposal? Jim 
Jeff - Were you ever able to pull together the info from the West Gas desk about total gas flows and the overall state ""balance""?  Just curious. Jim 
I wanted to follow-up with everyone following yesterday's meeting. It appears to me that we need to develop (1) a better analysis of the four market models - AGL (Steve M), Columbia of Ohio (Janine), Socal Gas (Jeff), NICOR (Roy) - based on some key elements and (2) the key Influence parties in Illinois with 5 layer Influence Circles that we need to be thinking about in this discussion. It would be great if we could get this to Laura for distribution by end of day Friday (realize it's tight). Key elements for Market Models -- 1. Direct Access Allowed?  For What customers?  What timeline? 2. Upstream Capacity resolution - assignment or otherwise?  Are there assets left to optimize 3. Retail pricing - Fixed price vs. PBR (how?) vs. something else? 4. Role of Wholesale Outsourcing Agent (would ENA sell to marketers or utilities or both?) 5. Other Issues Thanks, 
Number: 1-800-998-2462 passcode 4912753 AGENDA 1. SDG&E Rate Surcharge - Enron Actions 2. Sacramento Update Rate Freeze End Date 
I wonder if there is a way to determine from the studies when the rate free= ze=20 ended.  My logical is that at some point there was a crossover and maybe fr= om=20 the cash flows we would be able to determine the outcome.  What does everyo= ne=20 think? Jim 
On Friday, the Commission issued the attached Assigned Commissioner's  Ruli= ng=20 in the rate surcharge proceedings which does the following: ? 1.? It identifies the issues for Phase 1 as being: ? (a) Reviewing the independent audit results of PG&E and SCE, ordered in =20 D.00-12-067 and, as part of that analysis, determining whether or not there= =20 is a  financial necessity for other or additional relief for the utilities.= ? =20 Included here is a recognition that the utilities may make other interim = =20 proposals and this would be included within the scope of the first phase;  = and ? (b) TURN=01,s accounting proposal for the proper reconciliation of the =20 Transition Revenue Account (TRA) and Transition Cost Balancing Account=20 (TCBA)  accounts and the Generation Memorandum Accounts (GMA). ? 2.? The retention of utility generating assets and the interim  ratemaking= =20 treatment for these assets is being separately handled and hearings  will n= ot=20 occur on this issue in Phase 1.? Parties may file testimony on  interim=20 valuation in addressing whether the rate freeze has ended on a  prospective= =20 basis. 3.?? The Commission will consider whether the rate freeze has  ended only o= n=20 a prospective basis in Phase I. 4.?? The Commission will address the reasonable and prudent  cost issue in = a=20 later phase of this proceeding. 5.?? The  Commission will also consider parties=01, proposals for tiered ra= tes=20 similar to  those discussed by Senator Bowen in the December public hearing= s. ? 6.?? PG&E and?Edison are required to?notify the  Commission and all parties= =20 by January 30, 2001 of the specific portions of their  testimony that are= =20 within the scope of this phase. 7. The hearing schedule adopted is:?=20 February 5,  2001?????????????  Intervenor testimony served February 9,  2001?????????????  Rebuttal testimony served February 15 =01)21, 2001?????  Hearings February 23,  2001??????????? Closing  Argument February 27,  2001??????????? Briefs,  not to exceed 15 pages March 23,  2001????????????????Proposed  Decision March 26,  2001????????????????Final  Oral Argument March 27,  2001????????????????Anticipated  Final Commission Decision ? Please let me know if anyone feels WPTF should be involved in this phase of= =20 the proceeding. ? Dan ? - CPUC01-#88123-v1-A0011038_ET_AL_Lynch_Walwyn_Ruling__.doc 
Additional Talking Points 1. Grace Period for Direct Access Customers should be given at least the next 6 months to contract away from the Utilities w/o any penalty. 2. Fees must Promote Direct Access Any fees that are charged to switching customers should be of a fixed nature (reset annually) and have a long-term amortization (10 years). 3. CDWR needs to have incentives to minimize cost and should have some Risk / At a minimum, need Sunset language Without the right incentives, CDWR may not make the right decisions.  Need to push this into the market as quickly as possible. LANGUAGE CHANGE -- As much as possible, remove the "", including the payment of fees or surcharges, "" language in the middle as it seems to be covered by the last 
Here is the document. 
Agenda for today -- 1. Sacramento Update AB18X - Next Steps EES Legislative Language on Past PX Credit non-payment (support?) 2. CPUC Update SDG&E Filing 3. Cal PX Letter to FERC (1-25-01) - Mary Hain 4. Bankruptcy News? 5. Other 
Attached is some spending to date by the CDWR.  This information comes from a legislative member so we should NOT release it publicly. Jim DWR Power Acquisition for CAISO Date	MWH	Total	Average $/MWH 12/5/00	8,000	$5,600,000	$700 12/6/00	15,000	$15,000,000	$1,000 1/11/01	12,421	$4,681,445	$377 1/12/01	9,445	$2,920,375	$309 1/13/01	1,065	$274,000	$257 1/14/01	1,717	$433,025	$252 1/15/01	5,825	$1,633,500	$280 1/16/01	2,221	$1,191,800	$537 1/17/01	15,190	$8,698,000	$573 1/18/01	26,056	$11,665,596	$448 1/19/01	54,580	$19,699,725	$361 1/20/01	85,296	$21,257,175	$249 1/21/01	79,000	$20,483,249	$259 1/22/01	129,085	$42,816,753	$332 1/23/01	140,160	$50,001,577	$357 1/24/01	129,160	$42,578,997	$330 
Mr. Joe Kelliher Advisor to the Secretary US Department of Energy Joe - Attached please find our thoughts on California solutions. In the short-term, California must provide support to the Utilities to maintain reliablity (as they are doing with CDWR purchases).  In the longer-term, California must increase supply and reduce demand, as well as bring retail rates in line with the cost of a reasonable portfolio of electricity supply. Hope this helps.  If you need anything, please feel free to call me at 713-853-7673 (work) or 713-851-2499 (cell) Jim Steffes 
Here is the draft.  Comments please.  Due today at 5pm. Jim 
I would suggest that we spend the first 5 minutes on today's call identifying issues that remain open and/or need additional resources from this week. Also, I continue to add people to the e-mail list.  If someone from any team is missing, please let me know so that I can add them. AGENDA 1. Enron Actions before CPUC (Harry Kingerski) 2. PG&E - SoCal Gas Dispute (Jeff Dasovich) 3. Governor Davis Appointments to ISO Board - Who's in charge? (Sue Mara) 4. Update on SCE US District Court Action vs. CPUC to Immediately Raise Rates (Sue Mara / Travis McCullough) 5. Cal PX Security / Collateral (Travis McCullough) 5. Bankruptcy Update (Michael Tribolet) 6. Legislative Update (Sandi McCubbin, DC Office) 
1. Enron response to various PG&E gas matters (see Mike Day attachment below) Gas Receivables request of PG&E TURN/ORA Petition Diversion 2. Legislative Update 3. CRA On-Site Generation Language 4. Enron's Reponse to CDWR RFB (see attachment) [Other Parties Comments] 5. Cal PX Security / Collateral Update - Travis McCullough update 6. Bankruptcy News 7. Other Please feel free to send me any updates or additions. Jim 
FYI.  The attached briefing isn't great news for consumers in the Western markets.  The key conclusion is that: ""CERA expects this shoulder season to differ from years past, however, with power and gas markets producing strong year-over-year prices and little 
Alert fyi   a   very good recap  of upcoming  market trends..Marg 
Alert ********************************************************************** CERA Alert: Sent Tue, August 22, 2000 ********************************************************************** Title: Monthly Briefing: A Shoulder Month Without Shoulder Prices Author: Zenker, Snyder, Moritzburke E-Mail Category: Alert Product Line: Western Energy , URL: http://www.cera.com/cfm/track/eprofile.cfm?u=3014&m=1320 , Alternate URL: http://www.cera.com/client/ce/alt/082200_18/ce_alt_082200_18_ab.html ********************************************************************** As western markets continue to struggle through high August demand and prices for both power and natural gas, September looms as the start of the fall shoulder season. The shoulder season historically has brought the possibility of a break in weather and a demand drop in both power and gas prices from summer levels. CERA expects this shoulder season to differ from years past, however, with power and gas markets producing strong year-over-year prices and little relief from summer levels, even with normal September weather. West-wide power loads will decline but will remain similar to those in June, a month with high power prices. In addition, compared with June levels hydroelectric capacity has dropped owing to reduced stream flows, leaving more expensive gas-fired generation to replace declining hydroelectric output. CERA expects occasional hot weather and higher gas prices to push on-peak prices in the West to 244 percent over September 1999 levels. Continued strong use of gas-fired generation in the West, as well as low US storage inventories and tight supply demand balances, will keep the pressure on gas prices. Topock prices are expected to average $4.45 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) in September. These high September gas and power prices are driven by * Declining hydroelectric output. The months of September through November represent the low point for hydroelectric output in the West, with rainfall historically boosting output in December. Approximately 16,400 average megawatts (aMW) will be available from hydroelectric facilities during the three-month period. This represents a net reduction in capacity of 6,900 aMW when compared with the recent June-August summer months and a reduction of 3,600 aMW when compared with September 1999 levels. * Higher, more variable power demand. The Southwest and Southern California still experience hot weather in September, and regional utilities typically consider it possible that a year's peak load event will occur in September. Spiking loads, however, can quickly retreat with a return to cooler weather. Thus, power loads and power prices are expected to experience a high degree of variability during September. * High levels of gas-fired generation. Load growth and a declining hydroelectric resource base will require gas-fired resources to serve approximately the same level of demand as in June 2000, a month with similar average demand and monthly average on-peak power prices in the $150-$178 per megawatt-hour (MWh) range, depending on the region. This strong pull on gas-fired plants will push deep into the generation resource base, driving prices upward. An additional 1.7 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day will be required for gas-fired generators in the US West compared with September 1999 levels. * Strong North American gas prices. Natural gas prices are expected to retain most of this summer's peak levels, as North American supplies remain tight. A market anxious about winter demand and price levels will also limit a price retreat this fall. As a result, average September Henry Hub prices are expected to trade around $3.95 per MMBtu. An active storm season could keep Henry Hub prices near the $4.50 mark. * Strong western basis differentials. The strong demand for gas to serve gas-fired generation and storage concurrently will maintain western basis differentials at high levels, especially in the California markets. CERA expects a Topock-to-Henry Hub differential of $0.40 per MMBtu during September. Extended operational problems associated with El Paso's pipeline rupture would raise that outlook. Regional Power Market Drivers Hotter-than-normal August weather, transmission and generator outages, high natural gas prices, and declining hydroelectric output all contributed to a rise in power price levels during August. Southern California average power prices in August have thus far exceeded July levels by an average of $90 per MWh during the on-peak period and by $14 per MWh during the off-peak period. Mid-Columbia power prices, bearing the brunt of fire-induced transmission outages, experienced a jump from July price levels of $114 per MWh for the on-peak period and $20 per MWh in the off-peak period. Off-peak prices, which have averaged above $60 per MWh during the June-August period, are clearly defined by the production cost of gas-fired resources. On-peak prices during this same period, at over $100 per MWh in all regions in all months, have reflected a significant premium at times over the cost of the marginal system generator (see Table 1). A return to normal weather should drive West-wide loads down by 8,300 aMW in September from August levels. However, load growth and a return to normal weather are expected to push loads up by 5,400 aMW when compared with September 1999 levels. These greater loads, coupled with a reduction in hydroelectric generation of 3,600 aMW from last September's levels, will create supply tightness during September (see Tables 2 and 3). Hydroelectric, coal, and nuclear generation together will be insufficient to serve West-wide demand in September, even during much of the off-peak periods, requiring gas-fired resources to meet a significant portion of the load. Gas demand for power generation is expected to average 5.2 Bcf per day in September, down from over 5.9 Bcf per day in August but up by a dramatic 1.7 Bcf per day compared with levels in September 1999. September power prices will be defined by a floor set by the incremental cost of gas-fired generation, approximately $50 per MWh, with prices frequently higher as demand increases. As this summer has clearly demonstrated, prices rise in a nonlinear fashion as supplies grow very tight. Hot weather-induced loads should provide additional examples of this relationship. * Cooler- or hotter-than-normal weather in September, coupled with the inherent high variability of September loads, will produce a wide range of price outcomes. Under normal weather, on-peak power prices are expected to fall in the $113-$123 per MWh range, depending on location, representing a 244 percent premium to year-ago September prices (see Figure 1). The latest revision of the California Independent System Operator's (ISO's) imbalance energy market cap down to $250 per MWh is expected to depress market prices during any weather events in September. CERA expects the ISO price cap to limit prices outside of California as well. Pacific Northwest Although demand levels in the Pacific Northwest are expected to retreat in September by at least 1,100 aMW compared with those in the hotter-than-normal month of August, the loss in available capacity from hydroelectric resources will amount to 1,900 aMW over the same period (see Table 4). Thus, the Pacific Northwest will be in an even more limited position to export power to other regions. With transmission interties operating at below rated capacity during this period, power prices in the Pacific Northwest will maintain their tight relationship with those in Northern California. These price levels will continue to support the operation of the region's limited quantity of gas-fired generation. Mid-Columbia on-peak price levels are expected to average $118 per MWh in September. Off-peak power price levels in the Pacific Northwest will also receive a boost from the strong markets to the south. The expected September level of $54 per MWh represents the opportunity cost of power sales in surrounding markets. California The fall months initiate a seasonal shift in price differentials that separates the West into markets that lie north of transmission Path 15 and those to the south. As in years past, hydro-depleted Northern California should experience demand levels that must be served by generation resources within the region. Exports from the Pacific Northwest dwindle, and energy from the nuclear and coal-rich Southwest is constrained from entering Northern California by Path 15 import limitations. This condition, which is expected to persist from September through November, allows Northern California to price at a premium. The expected monthly average on-peak Northern California price of $123 per MWh incorporates this dynamic. Notably, the California ISO is completing a process to remap the zones in California, in part to capture locational price differences more effectively. Southern California, like the Southwest, will typically experience hot weather episodes in September. During these high demand periods, prices will rise to peak levels as experienced this summer. In addition, California as a whole should see average loads in September that are 4,600 aMW higher than those of September 1999. Occasional cooler weather will sharply but temporarily reduce daily prices. Southern California benefits from the abundant export capacity of the Southwest during cooler weather in that region, allowing prices to fall well below those in Northern California. An $8 per MWh differential between the north and south portions of the state is expected, with Southern California on-peak prices averaging $115 per MWh. Off-peak prices of $53 and $47 per MWh for Northern and Southern California, respectively, reflect the continued need for gas-fired resources to support September off-peak loads. Rockies and Southwest An extended period of hot weather in July and August has boosted demand in the Rockies, a region with growing saturation of residential air conditioning. Limited transmission capacity and a dearth of cheaper exports from surrounding regions have allowed the Rockies to price temporarily at a premium to all other regions in the West. A return to normal weather in September should restore the previously tight relationship of Rockies prices to those in the North. Rockies prices are expected to fall with loads, with a September monthly on-peak price average of $113 per MWh and an off-peak price average of $43 per MWh. CERA expects Southwest prices to be tightly connected to prices in Southern California on a monthly average basis. The two regions generally experience the same September weather patterns, and a strong 7,600 MW transmission link between the two market centers allows them to balance loads with each other. Strong gas prices and occasional market tightness-induced price run-ups will maintain on-peak prices at the $115 per MWh level in September. Off-peak prices will, like those in Southern California, be buoyed by the high cost of gas-fired generation. A price level of $47 per MWh is expected for off-peak prices. Regional Gas Market Drivers The summer competition for gas supply between power and storage continues in North America, with gas prices reflecting the intensity of that competition. Even as the summer power peak subsides in September across the United States, the need to continue strong storage injections and the threat of storms in the Gulf will keep prices high and volatile. The storage deficit now stands at approximately 350 Bcf, and US storage inventories look likely to head into winter at historically low levels. This critical storage situation will keep prices high despite overall declines in power loads in September. CERA expects a Henry Hub price of $3.95 per MMBtu during September. In the West strong power loads and the potential for power peaks persist through September, especially in California. Overall, total demand for gas is expected to decline across the West from 10.1 Bcf per day during August to 9.8 Bcf per day during September (see Table 5). This load will tend to keep intraregional differentials wide throughout the West during the month. The recent price disconnects between the supply-rich Rocky Mountains and San Juan Basin and demand-charged California will persist. October should bring some change in this dynamic as heating loads in the Rockies begin to increase. In general, winter will bring a dramatic shift in regional pricing differentials throughout the West. The summer pressure on Rocky Mountain supplies caused by high utilization rates on most export pipelines will be relieved somewhat by regional heating loads. Declines in flows into the San Juan Basin from the Rockies will take some downward pressure off prices in the San Juan. On the other hand, healthy California storage inventories should limit price premiums at Topock through the heating season. The start-up of the new Alliance pipeline, which will draw gas to the Midwest, will support prices in the Pacific Northwest and California. California Topock continues to be the premium pricing point in North America, although differentials between Southern California and the Henry Hub subsided somewhat from peak levels near $1.00 per MMBtu before this weekend's pipeline explosion. Total imports into California reached record levels during July; total imports of 5.8 Bcf per day eclipsed the previous high by 300 million cubic feet (MMcf) per day (see Table 6). Pipeline capacity into the state during the month ran at 83 percent utilization. So far in August, pipeline capacity utilization is exceeding even that high rate, running at 85 percent. These high rates of capacity utilization are putting pressure on gas prices in Southern California, and the pressure should continue during September. Total demand in California is expected to decline somewhat during September, but continued strong power loads and low seasonal hydroelectric generation will provide support. Total demand in the state should average 6.6 Bcf per day, down only slightly from August's total of 6.8 Bcf per day. Flows into the state between August and September are not likely to change significantly, but price pressure should decline somewhat with demand. The Topock differential to the Henry Hub should average approximately $0.50 per MMBtu for September (see Table 7). Storage inventories in the West are still healthy relative to levels in the rest of the United States, but the storage surplus in the region has eroded. In California, inventories are running lower than last year, and the deficit in the state looks likely to widen during September. The end of injection season storage inventories will determine the vulnerability of Topock differentials to winter price spikes. Pacific Northwest Malin prices this summer have shown neither the strong premiums that Topock prices have shown nor the wide discounts that supplies in the Rocky Mountains and San Juan Basins have shown. So far this month, prices at Malin are averaging a $0.25 per MMBtu discount to the Henry Hub. Pipeline capacity into the region from the Rocky Mountains is running nearly full; flows on PGT out of Alberta have averaged nearly 2.2 Bcf per day this month. Export capacity out of the region on PGE GT NW is running close to capacity, and pipeline constraints to the south combined with strong California demand are driving the wide Malin-to-Topock differentials. Continuing strong demand in the South will likely keep Topock prices strong, and the wide north-south differentials within the West will likely hold through September. In the Pacific Northwest demand is expected to climb through September to 1.5 Bcf per day from 1.4 Bcf per day in August. This demand level should keep Malin differentials from widening from current levels. For September CERA expects Malin prices to average $0.10 per MMBtu below the Henry Hub price. Southwest Prices in the San Juan Basin this summer have been left behind by rising California demand. Although the westward pull on supplies is strong, bottlenecks between California and the San Juan have led to disconnects between San Juan prices and Topock prices. Pipeline capacity utilization rates on Transwestern and the northern leg of El Paso reached 93 percent during July, with less than 200 MMcf per day of excess pipeline capacity. Increased flows from the Rockies on TransColorado and Northwest are contributing to downward pressure on San Juan Basin supply, and in general, the San Juan has followed Rocky Mountain prices rather than following prices at Topock or the Permian Basin. Unlike in the past two summers, the bottleneck has not allowed power demand on the West Coast to support San Juan prices relative to Permian prices. The differential between San Juan and Permian has averaged $0.50 per MMBtu so far this month and $0.30 per MMBtu since June. Additional imports from the Rockies into the San Juan have increased supply by 200 MMcf per day relative to last summer, but these higher flows do not fully explain the disconnect. Without much change in Southwestern or Rocky Mountains local demand, the San Juan should continue to price at a wide discount during September. The San Juan-to-Henry Hub differential is expected to average $0.60 per MMBtu. As in the Rockies, differentials should narrow substantially in October. Rocky Mountains Downward pressures on Rocky Mountain prices intensified over the past month as utilization rates on pipelines out of the region continued to climb. Record heat and power generation levels have done little to boost gas demand within the region; generation is still largely coal-based, and the demand impact on gas of the additional load is minimal. CERA expects the heavy discount-current Rocky Mountain-to-Henry Hub differentials are around $0.90 per MMBtu-to persist through September. Local area demand is not expected to change during September. Substantial gain in local demand comes in October with heating loads; October demand should average 1.4 Bcf per day, up from August and September averages of around 1.2 Bcf per day. Although the winter heating season will relieve pipeline pressures in the Rockies, winter differentials are expected to stay in the $0.25 to $0.40 per MMBtu range. Strong storage inventories will limit the connection with broader North American markets this summer. Next summer, pressures on Rockies supplies will likely intensify relative to this summer. Although pipeline expansion projects have been announced-Trailblazer and Williams announced expansion plans this summer-the new capacity will not be online to relieve constraints next summer. CERA expects supplies within the Rocky Mountains to increase by 300 MMcf per day next year. Western Canada After widening to over US$1.50 per MMBtu, the AECO-Henry differential has begun to narrow somewhat; maintenance that has restricted flows has largely been responsible for the jump from $0.84 per MMBtu in July. With current supply able to fill the contracted pipe capacity and incremental volumes having to pay full cost to flow, differentials are likely to persist in the mid-US$0.70s per MMBtu for September. AECO is expected to be US$3.25 per MMBtu (C$4.53 per gigajoule) for September. Even with the start-up of the Alliance project, the contract nonrenewal on TransCanada is likely to continue the two-tiered pricing dynamics of contracted versus uncontracted pipeline costs. This will result in differentials that will range between US$0.60 and US$0.75 per MMBtu throughout the winter. Supply build in western Canada continues to languish behind last year's levels. The pace of drilling (over 9,000 gas wells are expected this year) should provide growth in the fourth quarter and into 2001. Supply is expected to be flat with 1999 on an annual basis for this year and up at least 350 MMcf per day in 2001. Sumas prices have been quite volatile, driven by both weather in the Pacific Northwest and maintenance on the Westcoast system. For September, Sumas is expected to be slightly more stable and to price at a modest premium to AECO of US$0.05 per MMBtu. **end** Follow URL for PDF version of this Monthly Briefing with associated graphic and tables. ********************************************************* CERA's Autumn 2000 Roundtable event dates and agendas are now available at http://www.cera.com/event ********************************************************* ********************************************************************** Account Changes To edit your personal account information, including your e-mail address, etc. go to: http://eprofile.cera.com/cfm/edit/account.cfm This electronic message and attachments, if any, contain information from Cambridge Energy Research Associates, Inc. (CERA) which is confidential and may be privileged. Unauthorized disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the contents of this message or any attachments, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited. Terms of Use: http://www.cera.com/tos.html Questions/Comments: webmaster@cera.com Copyright 2000. Cambridge Energy Research Associates 
Attached please find three documents that outlines the economics of LT=20 contracting necessary for PG&E and SCE.  Also find some thoughts on element= s=20 of a workable settlement. Call me with any questions. Jim Scott Stoness 01/11/2001 05:09 PM 
Great idea.  My strategy was solve the immediate problem of solvency quickl= y=20 by getting the government to step in while the rules of the RFP are defined= ,=20 then do the auction, but if you think we could go straight to an RFP for=20 standard offer without going bankrupt, I would be for it. I believe that we do not have time for an RFP (6 months) so that we should= =20 get the government entity to step in to give us the time. And auction by rate class would be good but noone would want the large=20 classes because their rate increase will be higher and they will be less=20 likely to stay. Scott 
What about something different? If we asked for an Auction by rate class that would allow a different compa= ny=20 to market the default service.  The competitive bids would be used to reduc= e=20 the overall undercollection.  So in your ST point #1, replace Government=20 entity with a Competitive ESP that has paid the most to win that right. Jim Scott Stoness@EES 01/11/2001 02:39 PM =20 
Solution Government entity becomes an ESP taking over all customers not served by=20 another ESP. Government accepts any ESP's that come back within 3 weeks Utilities stopped from selling any additional nuclear, hydro, thermal or QF= =20 generation. Utilities provide surcharge/credit, for the lessor of 40 years or retiremen= t,=20 based on the difference between generation COS and market value to all ESPs= ,=20 after rate freeze ends. Government entity, as ESP,  charges Frozen Rate plus 10% until the end of= =20 2002. Government entity, assures all ESP that they will their costs will not exce= ed=20 110% of frozen rate until the end of 2002. Rate freeze and surcharge continue until the end of March 2002. Any shortfall of agency would be recovered through a amortization over the= =20 next 15 years with securitization less positive proceeds from auctioning=20 default provider. Other: Government commit to building 10,000 MW of generation by summer of 2002 Government commit to allowing emmission constrainted generators to buy=20 emission credits Goverment change legislation to allow swift DSM activity 
Jeff - Can you please keep Schroeder in the loop on all final documents that we would use?  Europe is talking about how crazy Calif is and we need to make sure that they are in the loop. Jim 
yes, send me copies of everything, I can sort out what we can use or should pass on.   thanks  mcs 
Mark -- FYI, we gave the following to the Bush Transition team about what is really happening in California.  If there is anyone on your team (you?) who should be getting copies of the material we generate, let me know so that we can copy. Jim Mark Schroeder@ECT 01/05/2001 07:56 AM 
As we all deal with the fallout from the California scene, I wanted to make sure everyone was aware of the recent report of the UK's National Audit Office (a highly creible organisation, along the lines of the US's General Accounting Office, even similar function; independent, too), saying that household electricity bills had been cut by 750 million pounds (if you are a Yank, multiply by 1.5 for dollars saved), since the industry was opened to competition two years ago.  Of course, much of this may be attributable to the divestment of assets in the oligopolistic generation sector, now competitive, but it is a very fari example of the benefits of competition and should be cited as a counterweight to those arguing that competition is a ""failed experiment"".  Paul Dawson, head of our UK regulatory team, can provide any necessary further insights./details.   mcs 
Philip -- I wanted to make sure that the OFFER memo on Feb 98 still was correct for the NordPool. The key issues we are trying to establish are - 1. Governance 1.b Relationship of Transmission Owner to System Operator and Market Operator 2. Mandatory / Voluntary Participation 3. Energy Pool vs. Balancing Pool If the report is still good, we can probably just pull the answers with some help from you. Jim 
FYI.  I haven't found out much about this, but wanted you to see. Jim 
Rick suggested that I call you about this. =20 
The following original documents, received today, have been forwarded for= =20 your immediate review and consideration: Order Instituting Investigation into the Functioning of the Wholesale=20 Electric Market and Associated Impact on Retail Rates to Enron Energy=20 Services, Inc. and Portland General Electric Company; No. I.00-08-002, Befo= re=20 the State of California Public Utility Commission.  LETTER, SUBPOENA OR=20 SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM, CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE, NON-DISCLOSURE CERTIFICATE,= =20 ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE=01,S RULING, PROTECTIVE ORDER and CERTIFICATE OF= =20 SERVICE to Enron Energy Services, Inc. by certified mail on 9/25/00. PLEASE ADVISE IF NOT RECEIVED WITHIN 1 BUSINESS DAY. Thank you. Becky A. Stephens Litigation Unit, Enron Corp. 713/853-5025 EB4809 
Attached is my version of the next draft of Enron's key Message Points.  I wrote these after watching two focus groups held in Orange County, CA Wednesday and Thursday night. It is important to note that the staff from Luntz Research (Liz VanDersarl) is also re-writing the key Message Points and the Speeches for our review on Monday.  Their version will most likely be different than these. If anyone has any comments on this version, please let me know so I can pass it on to Luntz Research. Thanks. Jim 
FYI. 
Jeff -- Can you try and call Seabron today to discuss.  See if his understanding helps with California issues. Jim 
Jim: >Have you ever seen a model for a bid process like this?  Any auctions (in >any commodity) that would work?  We are trying to get back to key policy >makers mid-day on Monday. Yes, there are numerous default service auction models in operation or proposed, both in electricity and other utilities. The government of New South Wales in Australia is implementing a model similar to this. In Georgia, I think they recently had an auction to serve customers served by a gas retailer that went bust. Similar mechanisms have been used for years in the telecoms business for serving specific client bases, such as rural customers. Examples have been in Chile, and even in the U.S. (auctions for ""universal service obligations""). We proposed a model for ""third-party"" default service standard supply for Ontario (working for Aleck Dadson of Enron Canada). This allowed the standard supply provider to meet its obligation by competitive means, including holding an auction. The idea was to provide customers hedging in a framework that allowed for competition in default service. Let me know if you want a briefing or futher info. I'll be in the office until 4:00 or so (I'm then heading to the airport for Portland). My office number is (617) 354-0060, or (617) 513-5904 (mobile). Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. 
So that we continue to drive our activities with our Public Affairs strategy, we have asked Alhamd to coordinate our material and project timeline.  We are also asking Jeanie Mandelker to take the lead in working through our different material to put into one look and feel. Please let Alhamd know of your activities so that we are able to better coordinate any bottlenecks.  Also, please forward to Alhamd and Jeanie all prior work that has been done so that they are in the loop. Attached the original gameplan. Jim 
Rick, et al -- I don't know if we need to do this study and the work that Seabron and LECG would be doing.  Maybe we incorporate these guys into the mix during the work up of the analysis. I think that we need to make sure that we have the right questions to ask.  I will get with Jeff Dasovich and Joe Hartsoe and Mary Hain to make sure that we (1) have the right questions and (2) have the right parties answering the questions.  Then let's look at our current resources and go outside only if necessary. Jim Richard Shapiro 08/27/2000 11:39 AM 
where are we on this? Jim- How does this square w/ Seabron's work? Is there a way to marry the two? Rob Bradley@ENRON 08/18/2000 05:10 PM 
Robert Michaels is proposing a consultant study looking at the California electricity chaos (see attached).  It is roughly a $100,000 study before printing and distribution costs with a delivery date of December 1.  The study would also involve Ken Malloy's Center for the Advancement of Energy Markets. I think Robert would do a good job but raise these issues: 1) This is expensive.  It is at consultant rates and is not an academic study where a think tank can get the professors to do something at less cost 2) Malloy is pretty heavy into this at a cost of $14,400 of about 40% of Michaels.  His NARUC connections are very important, and we would want him on the popularization side, but this is too much. 3) The study might need a co-author with lots of academic credibility to join Robert as good as he is. I'm glad that we have this proposal--it will force us to think about what we want, who does it, and how it should be distributed.  We should also think about how much industry money we could gather to fund such an effort (it should be large given the stakes). Can you provide your impressions so I can get back to Robert? - Rob Robert Michaels <rmichaels@fullerton.edu> on 08/18/2000 03:34:12 PM Please respond to rmichaels@fullerton.edu 
All -- Here's the memo I said you'd have today, and a preliminary budgeting sheet.  Gimme a call as soon as is reasonably possible. Thanx, RM - 818 Proposal Memo.doc - 818 Malloy California Report (Michaels).xls 
Please include this material in your Gov. Davis slides.  Very intersting and possible to do. Jim 
The attached memo from Goodin McBride summarizes the regulatory treatment of PG&E's emission credits to date. It is an interesting animal.  Basically, PG&E has kept most of the credits, therefore has not divested the credits with the generating assets.  However, these assets have been acquired for nothing, therefore they have no ""regulatory value"".  In other words, their costs are not part of PG&E's rate base and are not being recovered from ratepayers. PG&E has issued RFPs for sales (auction) of the credits in the past.  The credits have been sold to Duke (Moss Landing) and to Southern and Calpine for Morro Bay and Oakland facilities.  They were price-only bids.  The after-tax proceeds went to benefit ratepayers through reducing the over-all CTC. All of these sales necessitated an 851 application (transfer of utility asset), but it appears these transfers went without a hitch.  ORA supported the mechanism.  There was no CEQA requirement on the basis that the credits were associated with an existing facility or that a new or modified facility would acquire appropriate air emissions permits. If PG&E were to keep the ERCs, it would need to file a 377 (utility retention) and show that it is in the public interest for the utility to retain.  Considering that the utility appears to have no real use for the credits, it would be a difficult showing.  The credits do not appear to be part of PG&E's settlement proposal to transfer the hydro assets to its affiliate. So, PG&E has sold the credits in the past.  They have been sold to new owners of PG&E facilities.  The big questions is how can we encourage PG&E to initiate another sale.  Their shareholders get no real benefit, as it appears likely that PG&E can recover all of their CTCs, pending valuation of their hydro facilities. I would suggest that we approach PG&E on their willingness to auction a portion of these credits on a comparable basis to its other auctions.  (I've asked Mike to ascertain the amount of time involved with the previous auctions.) If this cooperative approach does not succeed, we can discuss the possibility of applying some regulatory pressure to the valuation of the remaining credits.  We may also want to look at other agencies that may be anxious for the release of ""hoarded"" credits (like CEC), especially if such hoarding prevents new generation developments from coming on line. Mona 
- X16872.DOC 
Sue & Mary -- What ended up happening with our filing?  Did we make a separate case?  I liked the IEP filing but thought that it may have been too conciliatory? Let's talk on Oct 9 Monday. Jim 
Sue & Mary -- What ended up happening with our filing?  Did we make a separate case?  I liked the IEP filing but thought that it may have been too conciliatory? Let's talk on Oct 9 Monday. Jim 
Sue & Mary -- What ended up happening with our filing?  Did we make a separate case?  I liked the IEP filing but thought that it may have been too conciliatory? Let's talk on Oct 9 Monday. Jim 
Chris & Jeff -- Given your pending discussions, thought you should see this information.  Not quite sure what SDG&E is up to here, but wanted you to be aware.  Jeff, don't know what Mona is thinking about doing, but you may want to talk with her about responses. Jim 
Gary, Thanks for passing this information along.  This is a pretty well-documented discussion, which is always helpful when we contact the utility about such conduct. Obviously, this is very concerning about SDG&E counter-marketing, while promoting choice.  In addition some of their assumptions seem to require tremendous leaps of faith. I haven't seen an application to aggregate yet, but I would assume there would be heavy protests to such a proposal.  (SDG&E solicited my feedback on such a position, and I told them we weren't interested.) I'm not sure what type of ruling they are expecting from FERC, lower price caps or a return to cost-based rates (pretty extreme).  Decision, per Sue Mara, is not expected until December. SDG&E does have bilateral contracting authority and at least thus far has not exercised it. Customers have already experienced what ""leaving it to SDG&E"" will get them. Once bitten, twice shy. Enron Energy Services 
In preparation for the upcoming filings from different RTOs around the country to meet the FERC Order 2000 October 15 deadline, I'd like to outline a set of steps that we need to undertake to respond appropriately.  Comments are appreciated. A few people met with FERC last Friday to discuss our general observations and what a good RTO will look like (please see attached file below). Not all RTOs intend to file on October 15.  The filing RTOs (from what I can tell) include the following: (1) RTO West, (2) Desert Star, (3) SPP, (4) Entergy, (5) Southern Transco, (6) Grid South, and (7) Florida RTO.  (SPP and Entergy may file together) 1. Immediate Public Response It is critical to make sure that we have a list of key issues with each RTO filing that we can use to make public statements.  Each RTO lead should prepare  preliminary list of issues and send to Joe Hartsoe and me no later than Friday.  When the RTO filing is made, we need to review this list and compare to the actual filings and finalize.  This information will go into building our public message. Our initial response will be public (through the trade press).  This will include making specific comments about each RTO. Right now we are focusing on (1) failed efforts and (2) insufficient work as the key problems.  Any details or other topics should be considered. 2. Formal Response to October 15 Filing Dan Watkiss of B&P will be reviewing the formal filings for details.  Joe Hartsoe will coordinate our FERC filings due on November 15.  We need these done by early November to run them through the commercial side.  Each RTO lead should schedule some time in DC the week of Oct 24 with Joe Hartsoe to make sure that our filings are on-track and complete. We should file in each RTO case. 3. E-trans Response Jeff Brown continues to work to build our model.  No formal plan to roll this out has been yet developed.  We are working to have something ready by December 1. 4. Northeast Tight Pool Response I would like Steve Montovano to take the lead to structure our response.  We heard at FERC that PJM was considering filing pretty soon (next week).  We need to get our story straight to take this to a pre-filing meeting at FERC. 
Sue - Where do we stand on proposing a broader solution to the problems in this= =20 case?  I am worried that the only leverage we have right now (utility=20 undercollection) is going to be taken up on its own and we will still have= =20 the other issues (e.g., price cap reductions, rate cap problems, hydro, etc= .)=20 to fight. Jim Susan J Mara@EES 10/11/2000 06:57 PM =20 
ued 
Last week you were sent an email which discussed the October 4 emergency = =20 motions of Edison and PG&E to modify the end of rate freeze decisions.?  On= =20 October 5, Edison filed an ex parte request for the immediate suspension of= =20 the effective date of portions of D.99-10-057 and D.00-03-058.??On  October= =20 6, PG&E filed its support of Edison=01,s request for immediate  suspension = of=20 the effective dates of the decisions. The motions were filed  because of th= e=20 significant undercollections which are being accumulated in their  purchase= d=20 power accounts. ? A ruling has just been issued by ALJ Minkin which directs parties to file = =20 responses to Edison=01,s and PG&E=01,s ex parte requests for immediate susp= ension =20 of certain portions of D.99-10-057 and D.00-03-058.? The judge says, ""In = =20 effect, Edison and PG&E have moved for a stay of certain aspects of these = =20 decisions.? Consistent with Rule 45(f), responses to motions must be filed = =20 and served within 15 days of the date that the motion was served, unless th= e =20 administrative law judge sets a different date.? Therefore, responses to = =20 Edison=01,s and PG&E=01,s requests must be filed and served by October 20, = 
Is there anything that Enron would like to see changed on the Cal ISO demand program for the Summer?  I know that we are not really worried about UDC Interruptible contracts, but maybe we can use this forum to change the way customers who volunteer get some benefits. Jim Susan J Mara@EES 10/11/2000 11:22 AM 
SUMMARY OF CPUC ACTION:  The CPUC has instituted an investigation of current interruptible and demand side programs.  Our CA attorneys prepared a summary of the CPUC action, which is provided below. ENRON ACTIONS:  Most of the calls we've received from EES have concerned the CPUC's proposed requirement that retail customers be forced to retain their interruptible contracts for their full five-year terms.  We have learned that Enron has customers or potential customers on both sides of this issue -- we have customers who want to get out of the contracts and customers who want to stay on the programs.  After discussion with Doug Condon and others, we have decided to stand on the sidelines and not take a position on that issue. Please feel free to call one of us with comments or questions. Sue Mara (415) 782-7802, Jeff Dasovich -7822, Mona Petrochko -7821. PREPARED SUMMARY:  Here is a preview of the Commission's latest actions in response to the ""crisis"" in the California electric market. In short, the Commission has instituted an Investigation into operation of the interruptible load programs of the three UDCs, and the effect of these programs on energy prices, other demand responsiveness programs, and the reliability of the electric system. The item which has gotten the most ""press"" from the OII so far is the proposed temporary suspension of the tariff provisions of the three UDCs that allow customers to opt out of their interruptible program contracts during the 30 day window commencing November 1st.  The Commission is using its authority under PUC Section 743 ( which gives the Commission specific authority to amend interruptible contracts between the UDCs and qualified heavy industrials) to propose such suspension.  Although parties are allowed to comment on the suspension by this Thursday (the 12th), the Commission does have the apparent authority to effect the change and it will most likely  proceed with the suspension. Apart from the enforced extension of the interruptible contracts, however, the OII potentially could have broader ramifications.  The intent of the OII is to examine all interruptible, curtailable, and demand responsiveness programs being currently offered and/or  proposed in California, and to determine how these programs can best be structured and/or reformulated to serve the Commission's goal of ensuring reliable and reasonably priced electric service within California (especially for the summer of 2001).  It is hard to tell exactly what the Commission has in mind.  However, it is possible that such reformulation of curtailable/demand responsiveness programs could interfere with Enron's ability to make interruptible/ demand responsive deals with customers. Moreover, the OII is not merely looking at larger customers. It states as one of the purposes of the rulemaking the identification of if and how smaller customers can participate in curtailable programs.  Specifically, the OII states that ""we need to examine the ability of smaller customers to participate; the development of rate design and incentive polices of such participation; a cost/benefit analysis of such programs; and the marketing 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
I received a call late today from the CPUC (Joyce @ 415-703-2199).  Someone from Pac Tel called and said that his service was switched without authorization - Mike Benson with Payphone group @707-253-8892 or 707-292-1766. Lamar -- who is the client rep for Pac Tel?  Can they get into Pac Tel and try and find out if we have done something inappropriate?  We need to call this guy back by Monday EOB.  Please let Jeff Dasovich know so he can call Joyce back - I'll be out on vacation next week. Jim 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Union-Tribune Do you think that there is a deal in the works and we are ""out in the rain""? I have to doubt that DENA or Southern are willing to give $ back to California.  Maybe Reliant would. Jim Richard Shapiro 11/22/2000 07:37 AM 
FYI 
IEP's public affairs consultant arranged an editorial board meeting for me while I was in town for the NARUC meeting.  Present were Don Sevrens, news editor/insight section; Bill Osborne, senior editor/opinion; Jim Gogek, editorial writer; Bernie Jones, editor, opinion pages; Craig Rose, the reporter who has written extensively on the topic, and a photographer. My two primary messages were that (1) wholesale and retail competition is working elsewhere, particularly in Pennsylvania, and can eventually work in California if the rules are changed, and (2) California has a severe supply shortage and needs to focus on providing incentives for new generation and expediting the permitting process.  I was subtly trying to get across the message that leadership was needed to help Californians deal with the need to reconcile their environmental and land use goals with the need to bring their power supply and demand into balance.  I, of course, defended FERC's order on the causes of the price volatility in California this summer and their lack of any authority to order retroactive refunds.  I also pointed out that there were no findings of individual market abuse, so that refunds wouldn't be warranted even if there was legal authority.  I also pointed out the problems with price caps. Other than Craig Rose, who disagreed with me any chance he got, the others asked good questions and seemed to be listening.  They made the point repeatedly that this matter is very political, suggesting that a political compromise with the generators/marketers is necessary.  One of them said he had heard there was a deal with the generators being negotiated and asked me my position.  I responded that I had no response.  Anything like that is the business of individual members. They indicated that they expected to do a story for this coming Sunday's Insight Section.  Please give me any feedback you have. 
Alan -- Before we bring in Seabron Adamson to do some analysis, I'd like your read of the Joskow and Hogan papers.   When we have our understanding straight, let's talk. Jim 