Attached are the latest communication materials.  We DO NOT have a deal yet, but I am sending these so that you have time to review before holding floor/staff meetings in the event we have an announcement later today.  Please do not forward these materials, as they are not yet final.  If there are any changes in these materials when the deal becomes final, I will resend them.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages, for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- External Q&A, for use with the media and external audiences -- Internal Q&A, for background use in meetings with employees -- Intranet Q&A, posted on the web for employees 
Attached are the latest communication materials.  We DO NOT have a deal yet, but I am sending these so that you have time to review before holding floor/staff meetings in the event we have an announcement later today.  Please do not forward these materials, as they are not yet final.  If there are any changes in these materials when the deal becomes final, I will resend them.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages, for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- External Q&A, for use with the media and external audiences -- Internal Q&A, for background use in meetings with employees -- Intranet Q&A, posted on the web for employees 
nope, we don't, so I've asked Marathon to call and find out who all the speakers are.  Will let you know. 
Tim -- This is the only article our ""research department"" could find.  Hope it's the one you were looking for.  kd 
fyi, I asked Dale Kasler at the Sacramento Bee for advance questions for Jeff's phone interview next Wednesday, and these are what he sent -- gives you an idea of where he's headed...  Let's talk about any concerns you may have, and we can certainly prep Jeff for this one.  thx. kd 
I'll place the call from Skilling's office.? Do you have specific questions I can pass along to Jeff ahead of time?? It's probably a good idea since you'll be talking about events 8 years ago, and he'll need some time to think about it.? thx. kd Dale Kasler <DKasler@sacbee.com> on 03/22/2001 02:38:46 PM 
Karen, ??????? 2 p.m. Calif time on the 28th is fine for the Skilling interview. You calling me, or vice versa? DK 
check out this website... you can also listen to the radio advertisement that's been running in CA. 
Karen: I think I located the republican ad re: energy crisis and Gray Davis.  It is at: www.saveourpower.com under ""Hear the ad""  I was unable to open the audio file.  I hope you can. 
What cracks me up is that Gary is so proud of himself! 
Personally, this is my favorite quote from the entire crisis.? It was in Mike Taugher's column of the Contra Costa Times, today. gba ? Some observers were incredulous, noting Davis' ?????????????????????????? reputation as a micromanager who keeps ?????????????????????????? appointees on a short leash. ?????????????????????????? ""The PUC has been run like his personal cabinet for ?????????????????????????? a year and a half,"" said Gary Ackerman, director of ?????????????????????????? the Western Power Trading Forum, a Menlo ?????????????????????????? Park-based association of electricity generators and ?????????????????????????? traders. ""This one's got me floored. The governor ?????????????????????????? once again is a day late. The Oscars for best actor 
fyi... you were right -- an employee did forward the email on California --= =20 and we got great feedback! 
Jeff/Janel/Paul -- I was just thinking about influential people to contact our top 5 legislators plus Davis...  Besides the Silicon Valley CEOs, Mike Peevey is pretty tight with and trusted by Davis.  When we met w/ Peevey, he told us he was in agreement on direct access -- how about a call to him asking him to weigh in w/ Davis.  Also, Peevey's wife is a freshman assemblywoman (Carol Liu, I think).  So I think Peevey is a key influential. 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
Glad to see we're doing our part to help the West's energy crisis...  we can milk the heck out of this story :-) kd PGE wants to convert manure to methane 04/03/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. SALEM, Ore. (AP) - Oregon's energy future may be chewing cud in Bernie Faber's pasture. His 500 cows will provide tons of manure to be converted to methane to generate electricity in a pilot project operated by Portland General Electric. The project is expected to generate about 100 kilowatts of electricity - enough for about 65 homes - by July. ""When you consider how many dairy farms there are in Oregon, this could be a significant source of power,"" said PGE spokesman Mark Fryburg. About 89,000 milk cows were reported on state farms in 1999. PGE wants to perfect the technology at Faber's Cal-Gon Farm. If the company succeeds, small-scale power plants could become commonplace at Oregon dairy farms. ""We would love to be able to engineer and design these things so we could do them at smaller and smaller dairies over time,"" said Jeff Cole, PGE'; biogas program manger. PGE officials also are interested in developing a 4.5 megawatt, methane-powered energy facility in Morrow County that could provide energy for about 3,000 homes. It would depend on manure from dairies relocating to the area to support a Tillamook County Creamery Association cheese plant. The disposal of livestock waste has become an expensive and complex problem for farms as environmental regulations tighten. A typical dairy cow produces about 150 pounds of waste each day. Methane-powered generators, such as PGE's project, reduce the odors associated with dairies and create useful byproducts: a nitrogen-rich liquid fertilizer and an odorless dry fiber that can be used to make potting soils. At Faber's farm, construction of a 28-foot high concrete tank where waste will be converted into methane is nearly complete. PGE officials compare the tank to a giant stomach, where bacteria in manure continues the digestion process and produces flammable methane. A modified, internal combustion engine will burn the methane for fuel and drive power turbines. After the manure is processed, the leftovers will be pumped through a solid separator, taken off site, and composted. Liquids will be stored at a lagoon at the dairy. 
FYI, read the item below about the 25+ deals EES signed in CA.  There must = be=20 several customers who are willing to weigh in on the direct access issue. = =20 Jim, now that you've added EES to your plate, can you influence the=20 discussions at EES about having customers participate?  I have the sense th= at=20 the pushback is from us, not them. thx. kd 
Here's another tidbit about EES deals in CA.  I think the deal w/ the Helix= =20 Water District would be a good case study to feature on our CA website.  I'= m=20 having Jeannie Mandelker write these case studies -- Peoples, Roseville,=20 etc.,  Any suggestions to add? 
I talked to Tracy Fairchild today about Edelman's efforts on behalf of ARM and the Direct Access Coalition and learned the following: The DA Coalition is willing to take media calls -- Tracy has identified coalition members who will talk to the media, and she is forwarding to me the list of these members and their contact information.  The three lead organizations in the coalition are the California Retailers Association, the California Chamber of Commerce and the California Manufacturers and Technology Association. Since February, these key members have changed their position on whether to participate in a press conference, and now they do not want to participate in a media event.  The reason is that there are other energy issues they're working on with legislators that they feel are more important than direct access (rate increase unfairly targets large businesses, interruptible issues, etc.).  They fear that if they participate in a direct access press conference, that issue will appear to be more important to them than these other issues.  In addition, there is now a desire by these organizations to distance themselves from ESPs because of the turnback of customers.  Many of the businesses are not thrilled with how direct access has worked, and ESPs are viewed as the bad guys. Furthermore, these business organizations view a press conference as offensive to the legislature and governor. One universal comment that Tracy had received from the DA Coalition and ARM members is that any event should not include Enron participation.  The UC/CSU issue has really painted us in a bad light, and no one wants to be associated with us. Tracy has been pleading for customers who are willing to talk about direct access, and she is starting to get a few.  Once she has customers, she believes she can pull together a press conference.  The target date is the week of April 16, although that may change so it doesn't coincide w/ the investigation hearings. ARM has been talking about introducing its own bill.  She'll keep me posted on this. Early on, Tracy had been successful pitching the retail story.  She's now working on a second mainstream media pitch about the conflict surrounding direct access: legislation is needed to fix AB1X, the utilities want to kill direct access, businesses want choice,  ARM has been screwed by Bowen (i'm sure she'll soften this angle) and  CDWR has concerns about direct access. I'll pass along any new information as I receive it. thx. 
Public Power Renewable Energy Action Team Launched; Non-Profit Center for Resource Solutions Assumes Management Responsibilities SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 3, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Municipal utilities in California have come together behind renewable resources. Volatile electricity markets are making renewable energy increasingly cost-effective, and a team of municipal utilities plans to deploy renewable resources as a means to ensure the continued competitiveness of public power. The Center for Resource Solutions (CRS), a non-profit organization based in San Francisco, has assumed management and organizational responsibilities for the group, which is called the Public Power Renewable Energy Action Team (PPREAT). Key supporters of PPREAT include the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, City of Anaheim, Northern California Power Agency and many other municipal utilities in California. PPREAT aims to: -- Aggregate demand for renewable energy among public power utilities; -- Move renewable energy into mainstream power planning processes; -- Identify opportunities for public power joint-ownership of renewable energy projects; -- Leverage federal and state renewable energy project development technical assistance; -- Hedge against future volatile electricity prices; -- Create a common public power branding strategy around renewable energy resources; and -- Develop a replicable model for joint-ownership of renewable energy projects. While PRPEAT's initial collaborators come from California, PPREAT participants ultimately hope to work with public power agencies from across the nation. Information on PPREAT and its activities will be available at www.resource-solutions.org. CRS will soon issue a Request For Proposals for soliciting partners in the renewable energy industry to collaborate with PPREAT in response to the CEC PIER Renewable Energy Program Area Grant RFP. For more information, contact Kirk Brown at CRS at 415-561-2100 or email at: kirkbrown@resource-solutions.org. CONTACT: CRS   |              Keri Bolding, 415/561-2100, | 
Attached is the list of influential contacts in the key legislative districts we've identified.  I've made the following assignments: Burton -- Jeff Bowen - Paul Hertzberg - Sue (since these businesses are in the San Fernando Valley, they probably heard you speak at VICA last week -- or they might have heard OF you!) Keeley - Jim Cox - Sandi (since the three contacts are in Sacramento) The names with an asterisk received the package from Ken Lay on Tuesday. I've also attached the message points we gave to Ken. Please let me know if you get any feedback.  Thanks for helping out and making these calls. kd 
Attached is the matrix I referenced in my email about AReM/DA Coalition efforts... - DAC Contact List 442001.xls 
Ken Lay put a call in today to Scott McNealy.  His office called back to find out what specific bill included direct access.  When I called back, they put me in touch with Mavis Toscano, who's in Sun Microsystems' state and local government affairs office.  She's Scott's point person on public policy, and she's been working on the energy issue.  Mavis had done some checking and no one had heard anything about direct access. Sun is active in three main trade associations: the Chamber, the American Electronics Association (AEA) and Technet.  None of those organizations said their members were asking for direct access, but Mavis promised to put calls in to them and get direct access on the radar screen.  Although she said they're not inclined to send letters, Mavis said she'd make some calls into the legislators, specifically Bowen. Contact info: Mavis Toscano 901 San Antonio Road MS PAL 01-554 Palo Alto, CA 94303 650-336-7115 650-336-0835 - fax 
It's unfortunate that the state's largest utility was forced to turn to the courts for a resolution.  Solutions to the state's energy crisis have been available for months that would have avoided this scenario, but Gov. Davis and the Legislature lacked the bold leadership to take swift, decisive action. Enron's exposure to PG&E will not have any material effect on earnings or on our financial condition. If pressed:  Any further comment would be speculative, as we have not yet 
Edison Reach An Agreement 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
The following are the California television markets that air the PBS show, the McCuistion Program: Pomona - MVP1 - ch. 26 Rohnert Park - KRCB - ch. 22 Sacramento - KVIE - ch. 6 San Bernardino & Riverside - KVCR - ch. 24 
no clue -- sorry. 
and i was going to lose sleep tonight... 
nyuck nyuck nyuck...  :-) 
fyi, I asked Edelman to send me the direct access pitch they are using with the media this week, and here it is.... 
Sure thing. Here's the pitch: Looking for a new twist on  the California energy story?? A conflict that's not being  covered? Tension is at fever pitch between the state's business community  and policy makers/Davis Administration over the issue of direct access.  Simply put, many forces are trying to kill direct access, which allows  businesses and residential users to buy their energy from alternative energy  providers instead of their local utility.? Yet for businesses this  summer, the option to bypass their local utility if they can ink a better  energy deal somewhere else may provide the thin margin that keeps them in  business.? And PG&E's recent bankruptcy filing begs the question:  why not let someone else provide power? As California business screams  for relief, the Department of Water Resources, legislature, utilities, some  consumer groups and the PUC continue to erect barriers against direct  access-which has been in a state of suspended animation since the passage of  AB1x.? Each player has its own reasons to push for the demise of direct  access.?? A large coalition of business interests is fuming  (see direct access coalition list below).? Already rocked by record  power prices and worried about recession, they fear that if direct access is  not resuscitated soon through emergency legislation, it will be one more  reason to raise prices, lay off workers, or shut their doors.? And they  wonder: why are our state's policymakers killing direct access at the time  businesses need it most as they confront escalating power bills?? It is  widely assumed that the Department of Water Resources has not contracted for  enough power this summer to avoid paying high prices in the spot  market.? Yet, the more power DWR doesn't need to buy because large users  have done it for themselves, the less financial exposure the state  incurs.? Last week, for the first time, Governor Davis suggested  that he may be supportive of letting businesses shop for their own power, but  it is unclear at this time how solid his support may be.? Meanwhile, the  Legislature continues to run in circles and do everything it can to avoid  meaningful action on this issue.? Direct access was one issue at the  center of the fissure between Assembly Republicans when they replaced their  leadership two weeks ago.? Senator Bowen's much-awaited ""clean-up"" bill,  SB 27x, has been more than a disappointment-in fact it's perceived as  ensuring there will be no customer choice. But don't take my word.  Edelman can arrange interviews with the California Chamber of Commerce,  California Retailers Association, California Manufacturers & Technology  Association, Calpine and other organizations fighting to preserve direct  access as well as individual businesses/organizations who have chosen to  bypass their local utilities and cut their own power deals in order to reap  huge savings and/or gain certainty about their energy budgets.? These  companies include high tech, hotel and grocery chains, school districts, and  large retailers.? This is a timely, controversial story that needs  to be told-and it hasn't truly been covered so far by the mainstream  media.? Please contact Erica Manuel or Stevan Allen at Edelman Public  Relations Worldwide at (916) 442-2331 to arrange interviews or receive more  information. ?Building Owners & Managers Association Of  California California Chamber Of Commerce California Grocers  Association California Health Care Association California Manufacturers  & Technology Association California Large Energy Consumers  Association California Retailers Association California State  University California Healthcare Association AES NewEnergy Association  Of Bay Area Governments Power OCLI - A JDS Uniphase Company Ralphs Grocery  Company Kaiser Permanente Enron Corporation Los Angeles Economic  Development Corporation Green Mountain Energy Company Independent Energy  Producers The Alliance For Retail Energy Markets (AreM) The New Power  Company University Of California School Project For Utility Rate  Reduction California Utility Buyers JPA 
fyi... 
Janel -- I've set up a conference call w/ Marathon and Peggy for 4:30 p.m. today to talk about UC/CSU.  Can you join? Let me know and i'll set up a 
Before any decision is made, I think we really need to weigh in with EES on the ramifications (both PR and legislative) of turning back 16,000 residential customers.  I strongly believe that the public hit we will take will be far greater than our actual out-of-pocket losses.  We will be crucified by the public, media, consumer groups, legislators, governor, attorney general, etc.,  and this action will reaffirm our reputation of packing up and leaving when it's not in our interest.  The impact of this action would be exacerbated since it is on the heels of UC/CSU. I would also argue that this hurts our national dereg efforts.  If we're advocating that competition and choice benefits consumers and then we turn around and pull out of a market and abandon customers when we're not ""profiting,"" we'll kill any chances we have of ever serving retail customers in California -- or in any other state.  We look foolish advocating for direct access when we're not willing to serve our existing -- let alone future customers What about a preemptive strike that engages these 16,000 customers to weigh in on direct access -- i.e. a letter that says ""Enron may be forced to cancel its contract -- call/write/send the enclosed postcard to your legislator and 
In the meeting today, no decision was made about what to do with Enron's 16,000 residential customers.   Each of the contracts gives a basic 30 day out right to Enron. That being said, I think that we have a short window to push for DA before any public action impacts us in Sacramento. I realize that the ultimate action (which I think is inevitable) makes it harder for our advocacy on DA, but real $ are flowing out of the company. EES will give us notice when a decision is reached. Thanks, Jim 
I get so worked up over this issue...  I really think now is the time to speak up and dissent.  Skilling told us at a floor meeting that as an organization we've made poor decisions in the past, and he believes it's because the people who disagreed with those decisions never spoke up.  So help me out! 
good idea... 
Karen: After we got off the phone, we had another idea re: messaging on direct access that we thought we would share with you so that you could pass it on during your next discussion with Peggy, Jim, Jeff, et.al. Since Enron has a good relationship with Cisco Systems, would it be possible to have John Chambers and Cisco deliver some of Enron's messages re: direct access, i.e. Like the UC and CSU system, Cisco entered into a contract with Enron for energy services Enron continues to honor its contract with Cisco,  Cisco remains an Enron customer. Although PG&E now supplies the electrons instead of Enron, Cisco still pays the same amount for its energy Since the inception of the contract, Cisco has saved XXX million. The legislature should restore direct access (SB27x) so that businesses can continue to manage their energy costs 
A friend of mine passed this on to me...Gray Davis has won a Whopper of the Week award from Slate. Eric > SLATE POLITICS > > Mon., April 16, 2001 > > chatterbox > > Whopper of the Week: Gray Davis > > By Timothy Noah > > ""I am going to will my way to a solution that is financially viable and within the existing rate structure....'Leadership' means raise rates.... 'Bold' means raise rates. 'Decisive' means raise rates. Everything means raise rates. That makes everyone on Wall Street happy. It does nothing to 
Grid Managmeent Charge? 
Grid  Managmeent Charge? I assume that it is true because, on net, all market participants are owed money by the ISO for power deliveries and ancillary service made available in November, December, January, etc.  I need to know if my assumption is on solid ground.  Do you have any opinion (corporate) as to what this means to the future of the ISO?  My wild guess is that without money to pay its employees, and other costs, the ship soon sinks.  Or does it?  This will be a major story probably later this week, so feed me please. Also, any comments on Dunn's Senate Committee (State of CA) hearings that is turning into a witch hunt? gba 
this is funny... 
> > Rollin', rollin', rollin', > > Though the state is golden, > > Keep them blackouts rollin', statewide. > > A little colder weather, > > And we all freeze together, > > Wishin' more plants were on the line. > > All the things I'm missin', > > Like lights and television, > > Are waiting 'til we can pay the price. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > > > Keep movin', movin', movin', > > Though they're disapprovin', > > Keep them rates a-movin', statewide. > > Don't try to understand 'em, > > Just raise, charge, and collect 'em. > > Soon we'll be livin' high and wide. > > My heart's calculatin', > > Nuclear plants will be waitin', > > Be waitin' at the end of my ride. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > STATEWIDE!!! 
Thought you'd get a kick out of the following message board posting... Author: emschulze=20 Number: 5208of 5251=20 
I think that's a great idea -- do you or Jeff have some language about the offers that were put on the table in San Diego?  We ought to have that in our back pocket anyway. Susan J Mara 04/24/2001 02:20 PM 
Gang, Can we put on the San Diego offer in about June of last year -- the part that made it into the public domain via the STeve Peace leak? Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Attached is a history of inaction by the CPUC in regards to long-term contracts. We are graphically portraying this as a timeline, incorporating the quotes. We would like to also incorporate any public long-term contract offers IEP members made that utilities were not able to enter into because of the CPUC. ?This will once again help reinforce that IEP members are part of the solution. ? Please forward this information, or any other comments, to me or Katie by 8am PST, Thursday April 26. Please call if you have any questions. Thanks, Jean -- Jean Munoz McNally Temple Associates, Inc. 916-447-8186 916-447-6326 (fx) - Long Term Contract Timeline 
fyi... 
FYI.  I will forward draft media responses (win or lose) either Sunday night or Monday morning.  A win would mean we do not have to continue the process of returning the campuses to our service -  as the judge ordered us to do.  A loss would mean that we must continue returning the campuses to our service and therefore we would once again be responsible for buying the campuses' power on the open market.   In either case, we maintain the right to continue the appeal process, and legal will decide whether or not it is appropriate to continue that process after the appeals court decision. Legal does not expect to hear the ruling until Tuesday morning, but there is a chance we could hear something Monday afternoon. Peggy 
Here you go!  Anything you think we need to add?  You in Houston today?  I'm working from home -- my dad's in town until tomorrow, so I'm supervising some ""daddy dos.""   :-) kd 
Plz give Dasovich a copy of the talking points for Ken's bb.  thanks 
do you need help? 
article w/ chart info 
Metro Desk Energy Cost Study Critical of Public Agencies Too Power: DWP is among three government-run producers cited as driving prices up. Spokesmen deny any market manipulation. ROBERT J. LOPEZ; RICH CONNELL TIMES STAFF WRITERS 04/11/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition A-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company Government-owned utilities, including the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, were influential in driving wholesale electricity prices to levels that helped ignite California's exploding energy crisis during the summer and fall, according to public and confidential records. For months, Gov. Gray Davis, legislators and consumer advocates have chiefly blamed a few private power companies for throwing the state into darkness and economic chaos. But they are just part of the equation. A confidential document obtained by The Times names power providers that have allegedly manipulated the electricity market. While the document does identify out-of-state merchants criticized for gouging, it also discloses for the first time the extent to which public entities allegedly have maximized profits in the volatile spot market. The document--which decodes the identities of unnamed suppliers in a recent state study--singles out three government-run agencies as consistently trying to inflate prices. They are: the DWP, the federally owned Bonneville Power Administration in the Pacific Northwest and the trading arm of Canada's BC Hydro in British Columbia. Like a number of privately owned generators, these three producers offered power at a range of high prices and, sometimes, in large amounts when the state was most desperate. They also helped saddle California's three largest utilities with billions of dollars in debt--leading one, Pacific Gas & Electric, to seek bankruptcy protection last week. The study by the California Independent System Operator, or Cal-ISO, analyzed thousands of hours of bidding practices for 20 large suppliers in the spot, or ""real-time,"" market from May to November. The study accounted for factors such as rising production costs, increased demand, periods of scarcity and profits that would be earned in a healthy, competitive market. Money earned above that was called excess profits. No entity--public or private--earned as much in alleged excess profits as British Columbia's Powerex, the state records show. ""They were the most aggressive bidders,"" said Anjali Sheffrin, author of the coded study. ""They had the most amount to bid and the most freedom to bid it in,"" said Sheffrin, who did not discuss any companies by name. The Canadian agency reaped $176 million in alleged excessive profits--several times the amount collected by all but one of the private generators. Second on the list was Atlanta-based Southern Co. Energy Marketing, now called Mirant, which collected nearly $97 million in alleged inflated earnings. BC Hydro and Mirant--along with the DWP and other producers--say they played by the rules established under California's flawed deregulation plan and did not exploit the state's troubles. But BC Hydro officials acknowledge that they did anticipate periods of severe power shortages and planned for them by letting their reservoirs rise overnight and then opening them to create hydroelectricity, which could be produced inexpensively but sold for a premium. ""It was the marketplace that determined what the price of electricity would be at any given time,"" said BC Hydro spokesman Wayne Cousins. ""We helped keep 
Favoring Caps 
Ken needs to be aware of this -- has he had any conversations w/ Bailey? 
Favoring Caps I got this from one of my Williams counterparts. Daniel Weintraub: An energy trader says it's time to limit profits (Published May 1, 2001) In a sea of angry finger-pointing, name-calling and ridicule, Keith Bailey stands out as an island of calm, a lonely voice of reason who understands that a company's long-term self-interest is about more than how much money it can make today. Most Californians probably have never heard of Bailey, a Kansas City native and chief executive officer of Tulsa-based Williams Cos. -- a private energy trader that has profited handsomely from the state's recent miseries. But Golden Staters from Gov. Gray Davis on down ought to embrace this Oklahoma resident. He might be the man who saves our future. Bailey is proposing that federal electricity regulators place temporary caps on the profits that he and his competitors may earn between now and fall 2002, when supply and demand will be closer to balance and sanity might return to the West's energy market. His rationale is this: To save California's private electricity market, new power plants are desperately needed. But not enough of those plants will be built if generators are not confident they will be paid for the product they already are providing. Californians, though, don't want to promise payment without knowing they will be able to afford the bill. Short-term caps on profits, Bailey believes, are the best way to ease the state's fears, get everybody paid and move on to a system that works -- for suppliers and customers. ""One of the things we are hoping to do with our proposal is create something that California can look at and say, 'So long as prices are determined on this basis, we're prepared to pay,' "" Bailey said in an interview. ""This is a mechanism that lets the state say, 'We're not signing a blank check. We don't know what the price is going to be, but we do know how it will be 
just wanted to make sure you both had this... 
Gas Pipeline to California 
fyi... 
WAY TO GO!!!!  I'll let you know as soon as I hear back from Ken when he can do the LA/Sil Val CEO meetings.  Good seeing you last week.  Hope you had a good weekend!  Talk soon. kd 
I think this would be a good opportunity to have an Enron rep -- and I think you would be perfect.  Are you available June 5?  Let me know so Marathon can confirm.  THANK YOU!!! kd 
more info on who from LADWP will speak... 
Karen: I received a follow-up call today from the LA Chamber wanting to know if anyone from Enron would participate in their June 5 forum on energy crisis. There has been a change in the speaker from DWP. Instead of Frank Salas or David Wiggs, Enrique Martinez, Assistant Director, DWP will attend. Martinez acquires power on behalf of DWP. If you are able to identify a speaker, the Chamber would like a bio so they can provide their members with some background information on the speaker. Thanks Sandra 
Attached is a letter Marathon drafted to send to the top 100+ CA businesses in our database giving them info on our ""comprehensive solution.""  Rather than attach the solution document as is, I'd recommend a shorter, simplified version, plus an overview page that answers ""What does this do for: 
Thanks -- you're the best!  I'll let you know as soon as I get additional info. kd 
Jeff -- I've put together Ken's script for a phone call to Dick Riordan. Please review the following and let me know ASAP if you have any changes. Thanks! kd Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders.   As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article). This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3560) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
at least this is one thing to cross off your list.  For the Silicon Valley meeting, Steve suggested that we use Scott McNealy's contact.  I can coordinate -- let me know if I can take that off your plate, too. thx kd 
Ken Smith mentioned that Dave Parquet sent out an email about this issue -- do either of you have a copy of it?  If so, please forward to me.  Thanks! kd 
I spoke with Elain Cory from San Francisco's NPR bureau, who  called Hedy Govenar's office earlier today regarding a story she's doing on  plant siting and air emission laws.? She's in Sacto today (currently  meeting with IEP), but I told her that our experts are in SF rather than  Sacramento.? I also told her I was checking with you to see if we could  offer someone (Dave Parquet seems the logical choice); if he (or someone else)  is available, she can meet with him on Monday.? ? Give me a call ASAP so I can follow up with her or so you can  take the appropriate steps.? I'll probably be on my cell -- (916)  947-0927. ? Thanks, Ken 
you bet! 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 
Jeff -- This is AWESOME!!! Absolutely terrific job -- you outdid yourself this time -- congrats!!! 
Piper -- Ken Lay will be in town on Thursday morning, and we'd like to have a meeting.  Itt would be helpful to have a California CEO host the meeting and encourage other CEOs to attend.  Do you think Scott would reconsider?  In the event we find another venue, I'll be sure to pass along the information to you and Scott. Thanks so much for your help. Karen Piper Cole -- VP Global Public Policy <Piper.Cole@sun.com> on 05/14/2001 12:15:12 PM Please respond to Piper Cole -- VP Global Public Policy <Piper.Cole@sun.com> 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 Any update on a meeting or conference call on Thursday? Piper 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 Any update on a meeting or conference call on Thursday? Piper 
Piper -- Thanks so much for your assistance in pulling this meeting together.  Attached is a sample invitation we'll send from Ken Lay to the CEOs of the companies in the attached spreadsheet.  I appreciate your calls to the policy folks at these companies to supplement the email from Ken -- hopefully, we'll get a good turnout. Please let me know if you need additional information. Thank you! Karen Importance: High X-Priority: 1 (High) Importance: High X-Priority: 1 (High) 
Karen, Here are two electronic maps of the campus.  One of them is a close-up of the campus itself.  The mansion is building 7.  The address is: 4070 George Sellon Circle Santa Clara, CA If you want me to walk you through it on the map, I'll be glad to.  The '7' is a bit difficult to see on the map if you're not looking for it.  Unfortunately, I don't have an electronic version of the close-up I faxed you -- it's off the brochure and makes for a clearer picture. Please let me know if there's anything else I can do for you. Einat _____________________________________________________________________ _______ /______/\  Einat Sandman /_____ \\ \  Public Policy Project Coordinator /______\ \\ /  Sun Microsystems, Inc. /______/ \/ / / 901 San Antonio Road MS PAL1-554 /______/ /   \//\ Palo Alto, CA 94303 \______\//\   / / Phone: 650/336-0593 FAX: 650/336-0835 \______/ / /\ / E-Mail: einat.sandman@corp.sun.com \______/ \\ \ \______\ \\ \______\/ - SantaClara1.pdf - sca_dirmap.pdf 
FYI. 
Ladies and Gentlemen: For Immediate Release: The North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) released its 2001 Summer Assessment today.  ""The assessment concludes that California will experience difficulties meeting its projected electricity demand this summer,"" said Michehl R. Gent, NERC President and CEO, ""and California electricity users will experience rotating blackouts, much more so than last summer or this winter.""  The report also states that extreme drought conditions throughout the Pacific Northwest will affect the available output of hydroelectric resources.  ""We expect that utilities in the Pacific Northwest will be able to serve all of their firm demands this summer,"" he added, ""but they will not have electricity available to 
Why don't you take one last look at this -- it's the version I edited -- and I'll plan on faxing to the CEOs tomorrow. You da best!!! :-) kd 
Did you mean to send the power point? 
Here's a first-crack at a letter for the CEOs to sign.  I couldn't open Microsoft Word, so I apologize it's in the body of this email.  Once we circulate a draft and get a version people are comfortable with, I'd recommend the following actions (but not by Enron): * send the letter to the governor and all members of the Legislature * run the letter as a full-page ad in key newspapers * advance the story to the media for earned coverage (possible editorial boards w/ several CEOs -- not Enron)  We could have an effort in both Northern and Southern California -- w/ different CEOs to emphasize the bipartisanship and diversity of support for the solution.  This media effort should target broadcast, as well. Edit away! ****************************************************************************** *************************************************** An open letter to Governor Davis and members of the Legislature: California's energy crisis has persisted and worsened over the past 12 months.  We have already experienced blackouts, and with summer fast approaching, unless something is done immediately, the worst is yet to come. The North American Electric Reliability Council released a report last week that said California is expected to experience more than 260 hours of blackouts this summer -- that's ten days without power.  California's economy cannot afford to grind to a halt because we have no power. Two of the state's largest companies have been thrown into financial turmoil.  Pacific Gas & Electric has already declared bankruptcy, and Southern California Edison is on the brink.  With California spending more than $____ a day on power and depleting cash reserves, the State's credit rating has been downgraded -- only Louisiana has a lower rating. While there has been much talk of potential solutions, none have advanced. There is too much at risk to delay another day.  Therefore, we, the undersigned, are proposing a comprehensive five-step solution to solve California's short- and long-term energy crisis that includes the following: 1.  Decrease demand -- There is no time to build power plants or get additional generation on-line in time for  this summer.  Therefore, the only option to reduce the impact of an electricity shortage this summer is to reduce  consumption.  This can be accomplished in several ways: Real-time pricing --  prices should reflect the cost of producing electricity, which varies throughout the   day.  When demand is at a peak, prices are high; when demand drops, so do prices.  This will give   customers a financial incentive to conserve and take simple actions, like turning the thermostat up two   degrees. Demand buy-down programs -- If a customer is willing to pay for kilowatts used, he/she ought to be   compensated for kilowatts saved. NEED TO SAY WHO WILL PAY FOR THIS 2. Increase supply -- The Governor has taken an important first step by using his executive powers to   streamline power plant siting.  While the state currently has approved 13 power plants totaling 8,512 megawatts,  it's not enough.  California ought to be the most attractive place to build power plants, transmission lines and  pipelines; instead, it's the least.  There is a backlog of turbines for power plant development, yet of the 1,000 backlogged, only 24 are earmarked for California because the state has sent an ""anywhere but here"" message  to investors.  The state's political leaders must reject action that discourages investment, including: * Legislation that would impose a ""windfall profits"" tax on power sold in California and make it a felony to   sell power at a price that the state finds unreasonable. * Continued calls for price caps in wholesale power market -- caps only create shortages and fail to   reduce  prices. * Investigations into allegations that suppliers manipulated power prices. 3. Make the utilities creditworthy -- Under California law, utilities are forced to charge frozen rates, but they  must buy power at higher wholesale prices.  The utilities' inability to recover their costs has forced PG&E into  bankruptcy and threatens Southern California Edison's solvency.  The solution to restoring the utilities'   creditworthiness is to set rates that cover the utilities' past debts and future costs -- and then give customers the  power to reduce their bills by conserving or by choosing a competitive energy supplier. 4. Get California out of the power-buying business -- Once rate increases return the utilities to   creditworthiness, the role of buying power can be returned to the utility very quickly -- within three to six months.   The state should not buy the transmission grid to raise additional cash for the utilities.  There are other ways to  raise funds: for example, a miniscule rate increase of two-tenths of one cent per kilowatt hour could accomplish the same thing -- and keep the power expertise in the hands of the utilities. 5. Get deregulation right in California -- California never deregulated.  In fact, today there is more   regulation than ever before.  For true deregulation to exist, every consumer and business in the state must have the right to hire and fire their energy service provider.  When California passed a law this year authorizing the  state to buy power, that same law (AB1X)  called for an end to customer choice (also called ""direct access."") California must rescind AB1X and reinstate the right of customers to choose their energy service provider.  ARE  WE INCLUDING CORE/NON-CORE? (i can't remember...) We urge the Legislature and Governor to enact legislation that includes these five components and sets California on the path to economic stability.  The longer the delay, the bigger the problem.  The time to act is now. CEO CEO 
Here's the info I have from the biz cards I collected yesterday (Ahhhhnold didn't have one...) Pat -- Would you please add to my rolodex?  Also, if you have any phone messages this week from CEOs w/ assistant names and numbers, pls route to this distribution. thx. kd Sun Microsystems Piper Cole Vice President Global Public Policy 901 San Antonio Road, UPAL01-554 Palo Alto, CA 94303-4900 phone: 650-336-6633 fax: 650-336-0835 piper.cole@sun.com www.sun.com/policy Exocus Communications, Inc. Casey Beyer Director, Government and Industry Relations 2831 Mission College Boulevard Santa Clara, CA 95054 phone: 408-346-2474 cell: 408-464-8126 fax: 408-346-2420 casey.beyer@exodus.net Thomas E. Patterson Sidley Austin Brown & Wood 555 West Fifth Street Los Angeles, CA 90013 phone: 213-896-6037 fax: 213-896-6600 tpatterson@sidley.com Eric Moses Assistant Deputy  Mayor Office of the Mayor Los Angeles, CA 90012 phone: 213-847-3574 pager: 213-350-9416 fax: 213-485-1286 emoses@mayor.lacity.org Robert A. Day Chairman/CEO Trust Company of the West 865 South Figueroa Street Los Angeles, CA 90017 phone: 213-244-0004 fax: 213-244-0588 200 Park Avenue New York, New York 10166 phone: 212-771-4004 fax: 212-771-4001 Bruce Karatz Chairman & CEO KB Home 10990 Wilshire Blvd. Los Angeles, CA 90024 phone: 310-231-4000 fax: 310-231-4290 designated contact: Larry Gotlieb (political affairs) 310-231-4000 Robert V. Sinnott Managing Partner - Energy Investments Kayne Anderson 1800 Avenue of the Stars Second Floor Los Angeles, CA 90067 phone: 310-284-5508 fax: 310-284-6490 rsinnott@kayne.com Kenneth T. Lombard President Magic Johnson Theatres/Johnson Development Corporation 9100 Wilshire Boulevard, suite 710 East Beverly Hills, CA 90212 phone: 310-247-1994 fax: 310-247-0733 klombard@johnsondevelopmentcorp.com Kenneth T. Lombard President Los Angeles Board of Water and Power Commissioners Department of Water and Power City of Los Angeles 111 N. Hope Street, room 1555 Los Angeles, CA 90012 phone: 213-367-1356 Selim Zilkha 
you're now appearing on fliers!!!  What's next?  Movies?  A supporting role w/ Arnold??  :-) kd 
Jeff -- I'm still in CA (and still recovering from last week...) hope you are, too.  I'm anxious to send the letter to the CEOs, since we promised them something on Friday.  Would you please follow up w/ Steve on Monday?  Call me 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
fyi... 
Phil Angelides addressed Town Hall Los Angeles last week about the energy crisis.  Angelides was the first speaker in Town Hall's energy series. Upcoming speakers include John Bryson, Steve Letbetter, Loretta Lynch, and Ken Lay. Angelides made the following comments regarding the energy crisis: 1.  A sharp downturn in California will send the national economy into a slide 2.  California deregulation is a virus that will kill deregulation nationally. 3.  The power shortage is a problem of our own making. 4.  Californians must conserve power in record-setting levels. 5.  The Governor and Legislator must level with citizens about the energy crisis 6.  Utility rates must penalize consumption 7.  Californians must unite to reign in generators 8.  The Federal government should impose wholesale price caps 9.  If FERC will not fulfill its obligation to set fair and reasonable prices, or the price of electricity increases 50% more, Californians must fend for themselves, possibly through the formation of a buyers cartel with Oregon and Wash. or by seizing power plants. 
Jeff -- Thanks for your phone message.  I'm stuck and need your help.  My Microsoft Word isn't working, and I want to send something out to the ceos asap tuesday.  Can you clean up the letter?  I'm fine w/ your edits (for the signature line, add ""name, title"")  Pls send me the final letter so I can detach.  i've left a message for steve and will wait to send until i hear from him. I'm didn't collect biz cards from everyone at the CEO meetings, and I need email and/or fax numbers for: Tony Ridder Steve Kirsch Ken Oshman Fred Anderson Dan Scheinman Vivek Ranadive John Doerr Ray Irani Can you send me the info from their cards?  Call me if you have any questions.  THANK YOU!!! 
Thank you, Joseph!! Joseph Alamo 05/22/2001 01:43 PM 
Steve Kirshch CEO Propel 1010 Rincon Circle San Jose CA 95131 ph.  408.571.6317 fax: 408.577.1070 e-mail:  stk@propel.com Vivek Ranadive CEO Tibco ph. 650.846.5001 e-mail: ranadive@tibco.com Kenneth Oshman President & CEO Echelon 415 Oakmead Parkway Sunnyvale CA 94085 ph. 408.938.5244 fax 408.328.3805 e-mail: keno@echelon.com John Doerr ph. 650.233.3353 e-mail: jdoerr@kpcb.com 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
in depths of 
fyi... 
Info on the chamber speaking engagement... 
Sandra -- Any other info Jeff Dasovich needs for Tuesday's chamber meeting? Also, any further word on attendees for Tuesday's meeting w/ the prez? Thanks! kd 
At least one CEO has sent the letter... 
fyi... 
Also, the board of directors list isn't attached... i'd like to forward to jeff. thx Sandra Yamane <SYamane@marathon-com.com> on 05/09/2001 11:03:18 AM 
Sandra -- yes, Jeff will participate.  Please let me know what we need to prepare on this end.  Thanks! kd 
fyi, of the 12 participants, we've briefed reps from three of the companies (Exodus, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Wal-Mart), plus Dick Riordan.... 
Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
FYI, the only people who knew who we invited to the meeting (but did not attend) were Dick Riordan and Kevin Sharer... Saturday, May 26, 2001 (SF Chronicle) Enron's secret bid to save deregulation/PRIVATE MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians Christian Berthelsen, Scott Winokur, Chronicle Staff Writers Energy executive Kenneth Lay, head of powerful Enron Corp., quietly courted Arnold Schwarzenegger, Richard Riordan, Michael Milken and other luminaries this week in Beverly Hills to drum up support for his solution to California's energy crisis. His prescription called for more rate increases, an end to state and federal investigations and less rather than more regulation. Lay, a close friend of President Bush and one of his largest campaign contributors, hosted a private 90-minute meeting in a conference room at the Peninsula Hotel in Beverly Hills on Thursday. Among the participants were Milken, the former head of the Drexel Burnham Lambert investment banking firm who pleaded guilty to fraud charges in 1990 and who now runs a think tank based in Santa Monica; movie star Schwarzenegger; and Riordan, the mayor of Los Angeles. Schwarzenegger and Riordan have been courted recently as GOP gubernatorial candidates. One participant, who agreed to speak on the condition he not be identified, said the meeting appeared to be geared toward getting participants to support Lay's vision and then champion it to officials who are trying to solve the state's energy mess. PLAN TO RESCUE DEREGULATION The source said the timing and tone of the meeting suggested Lay is concerned that California will abandon its disastrous experiment with power markets by either re-regulating the system or creating a government authority to provide electricity. Gov. Gray Davis signed legislation last week to create and fund a state power authority that would build, buy and run power plants in California. ""They're trying to rescue deregulation,"" the source said of Enron 
MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
That's what I told AP, but after I looked like a major doofus on the front page of the Chronicle... The last few weeks have not been pretty for PR... How was your vacation? 
MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
You're too kind -- and you're always a pick-me-up -- thanks!  Glad you're back.  missed you last week (even tho you called in!) 
I'm attaching the letter we drafted for the CEOs to send to Davis and the top six legislators: Jennifer Thome 05/29/2001 03:54 PM 
Rick: I have attached the first ""Solutions Document"" we developed several weeks ago in advance of a trip Ken was making to CA. Below is a message with links to the more recent documents Ken used. Please let me know if you have any questions. Jennifer 
On the call on Friday, Linda asked if we could distribute materials developed/used recently in California regarding the crisis and solutions to try to resolve it.  Attached are: A ""backgrounder"" provided to the business leaders that Ken Lay met with last week A power point presentation that is a ""higher level"" discussion of the more 
I just got a call from Sandra Yamane at Marathon -- she just talked to their client who was at the CEO meeting w/ Bush, Davis and Riordan.  Each participant had two minutes to speak -- all focused on technology and energy efficiency.  The media was allowed to come into the meeting at the end. Craig Barrett emerged as the spokesman and he said the group unanimously was opposed to price caps.  Davis said very little, and Riordan said nothing. 
news from the day 
run with this one!  I really hope you're successful.  If this one doesn't work, I don't even want to think where we'll be.  I've got fingers, toes, 
Attached is the latest Q&A on the residential turnback.  There are still questions to be answered (and if you have additional ones, pls send to me/Peggy asap), and we'll route an updated version. 
Latest versions of Q&A documents.  I am in the process of reviewing.  Plez let me know if you have any thoughts. Peggy 
Here is the latest version of the Q&A. There are two separate documents: one for the customer service representatives and one for the press.  These documents have been reviewed and approved by Vicki, outside council, and others.  I have sent the customer representative Q&A under separate cover to Diann Huddleson and Kevin Keeney, so there is no confusion with the media Q&A. 
we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the letter that was sent out Friday... 
Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we receive the first customer call. I will keep you all in the loop. Thanks! Peggy 
Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers will receive in the mail.  Thank you. 
> we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the > letter that was sent out Friday... 
> > Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we > receive the first customer call. > I will keep you all in the loop. > Thanks! > Peggy 
> > > Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within > the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second > paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, > final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers > will receive in the mail.  Thank you. > > (See attached file: Calif_Residential_0524_6PM.doc) > > > 
I think we can give Gary some message points, agree?  What topics do we want him to hit -- stop the rhetoric, implement a comprehensive solution (which includes more than just rate increases), etc, etc... 
I will be in Warren Olney's To the Point national radio show today with Frank Wallach, Maviglio, etc. to discuss Bush's visit to California, and energy policy. Feed me. gba 
fyi... 
The lead Senator for the California Senate Select Committee of Manipulation of Electricity in the Wholesale Market invited me to a Univ of California - Irvine CEO Executive Roundtable retreat at the Ojai Valley Inn on June 9 (Saturday).? It's just me, Sentaor Dunn, and Anjali Sheffrin of the ISO on the panel.? The audience is 144 CEOs from businesses located in the Irvine, and the south Orange County area. If you have any special bullet items you want to send me in preparation for this, then do so.? Don't send me things you think I already have from you (e.g, info in preparation for the Kathleen Connell Conttroller's Quarterly article).? This crowd should be more business friendly than, say, Women of LA. gba ? ? 
I didn't talk to Jason on this one.  I'll check w/ Mark, but I doubt he would know what we gave to Hertzberg and the chamber.  It's odd that Jason said Enron ""executive"" since if he talks to me or Mark, he uses ""spokesman"" or uses our names... I think Davis's new hit men are really trying to paint us 
Jeff -- Thanks for responding to Brulte's request.  I sure hope you can pull 
Hey there, two things... 1 -- how are negotiations coming?  can i uncross my fingers and toes yet? 2 -- i fed-exed the Frontline and Nightline pieces to Sue yesterday, so you should have them in your office today.  Should I send popcorn? Talk soon. 
what do you think about this idea? 
fyi... 
I helped make this more agressive.  The first draft I saw just said take note that the CPUC is considering doing this. We know that Kate Berry of OCo Register is doing a story. She called Jeff on it. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
fyi... 
I helped make this more agressive.  The first draft I saw just said take note that the CPUC is considering doing this. We know that Kate Berry of OCo Register is doing a story. She called Jeff on it. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
fyi... 
I helped make this more agressive.  The first draft I saw just said take note that the CPUC is considering doing this. We know that Kate Berry of OCo Register is doing a story. She called Jeff on it. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
oh. my. gosh.  Freeman is again out to save the world... Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/12/2000 10:50 PM 
I'd say, ""What next?"", but I'm afraid to ask.... Regarding our California strategy, preventing the merger would seem to be right up there with ""end the price caps"" in our list of priorities.  At today's FERC hearing, a hair-brained consumer advocate called for merging the PX and the ISO.  During the panel I was on, I made the point that a merger would make California's problems worse than they are today.  The FERC Commissioners seemed somewhat responsive to my concerns. P.S. After the panel, Heber lobbied me hard to support transcos. DJ Freeman Sees Cal/ISO, PX Merger, Lower Price Cap Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES SAN DIEGO (Dow Jones) -- David Freeman, seen a likely replacement for Marcie Edwards on the board of governors of the California Independent System Operator, said his first order of business would be to try and merge the ISO and the California Power Exchange. Edwards resigned her post on the ISO Thursday. An informal consensus among the board has already approved his membership. Freeman told Dow Jones Newswires that the $250 per megawatthour wholesale power price cap in California is too high, and that he would like to see it reduced below $100/MWh. ""I think my role (on the board) will help the state solve it's serious generation shortage problem,"" Freeman said. Some market participants said Freeman is expected to run for chair of the ISO's board of governors, a seat currently held by Jan Smutny-Jones. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power has this summer been able to sell the ISO power in the real time market, and make a great profit for itself in return. By Jason Leopold (323)658-3874. 
Now I know why you were scribbling in that little blue book!  Great notes! Sounds like Tuesday was quite a circus -- and a long, drawn-out one, too.  I think you did great and wish Steve and I could have stayed for Tuesday's 
Business Heats Up 
Business Heats Up FYI - not sure if you guys saw this!  Still looking for a corporate customer to go on record. Peggy 
How come FERC has finalized their report without our comments?!  We need to be prepared to respond when they issue their report -- we can line up broadcast interviews (CNBC, CNN) in response -- and also target specific publications.  We'll need to prepare ""sound bite"" messages based on our filing (I haven't seen it yet, but Mary Hain is supposed to be sending it). Keep me posted on the time and place of the Nov. 1 press conference.  Also, are we participating in the Nov. 9 public hearing?  Let me know. thx. kd 
J -- is this what you're attending?  Are you speaking?  Is media attending? kd ELECTRICITY SUMMIT AT U.C. BERKELEY, NOVEMBER 13, 2000 U.C. Berkeley's Goldman School of Public Policy, with additional support from the U.C. Berkeley's Competition Policy Center and the U.C. Energy Institute, will host a meeting of industry representatives, policy makers, consumers representatives, legislators and researchers to discuss the electricity restructuring experience and potential solutions to the difficulties that California and other governments have encountered.  The summit will run from 12:30-6pm with two roundtable discussions that will include a wide variety of viewpoints. For registration information and further details, go to: 
Is our white paper on the web somewhere? 
FYI, Sue will receive a special award from the Western Power Trading Forum at their meeting in Ojai, Calif. on June 21.  Scroll to the bottom of this email to read why they selected her! Way to go, Sue!!! 
Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Sue....this is exceptionally well-deserved, for all you do for the causes which Kent, and all of us, hold dear.  Congratulations!! Dan ----- Message from ""Gary Ackerman"" <foothill@lmi.net> on Tue, 24 Apr 2001 13:19:35 -0400 ----- 
Sue Mara of Enron has been named the first recipient of the Kent Wheatland Memorial Award.  Sue was selected in consultation with many of WPTF's Board members because of her tenacity, forth-rightness, and courage.  She will be bestowed the honor on the evening of June 21 at our General Meeting in Ojai, and presenting the award to Sue will be Kent's brother, Gregg. Please join me in congratulating Sue on her selection.  You will note that she is not copied on this memo, but I called her this morning to tell her the news.  She was shocked, and honored, and almost, but not quite speechless. gba 
In advance of the CPUC's meeting June 19 when they will consider suspending direct access, we would like to send a letter from Ken Lay to the top businesses, CEOs and members of the Coalition for Energy Action urging them to weigh-in with the PUC.  AReM has already issued a media advisory alerting the press to the PUC meeting.  Please review the attached letter, and let me know if you have any comments or changes as soon as possible.  If we send something out, it will need to go out first thing Monday morning. Thank you. kd 
Calif Fails To Find Illegal Acts By Generators -Sources By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 06/12/2001 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) (This article was originally published Monday.) LOS ANGELES -(Dow Jones)- An investigation by California's attorney general and state utility regulators into alleged illegal behavior by electricity generators has failed to turn up evidence of criminal activity, persons familiar with the probe said Monday. The sources - including two commissioners on the California Public Utilities Commission and an aide to Attorney General Bill Lockyer - said generators aren't likely to be prosecuted, even though it appears they did withhold supply, and that the state may pursue civil remedies as an alternative. 
Access and asks for CPUC Support 
FYI, JDS Uniphase Corporation was one of the 150 California companies that received our direct access letter.  Please see the attached letter that they sent to the CPUC commissioners. 
Do we have any contact w/ the Coalition for Energy Action -- the new business group led by the California Chamber?  We need to be part of that group to at least know what they're doing and what messages they're spinning.  Let me 
Jeff just called and asked us to prepare the following charts for his presentation at the Commonwealth Club: 1 -- forward price of power in California (today, tomorrow, next day, 5 years, 10 years, 20 years) conceptual charts of Economics 101: 2  -- example of a supply/demand curve 3  -- supply/demand curve for short-term power 4  -- supply/demand curve for long-term power 5 -- 3-4 quotes from testimony in '95/'96 where Enron made the arguments that there would be no forward market, structure was silly 6 -- chart with the estimate for the number of states or utilities and what percentage of power-buying is long-term versus short-term.  Jeff wants to show that all other states and utilities have a minimal percentage of power 
Firms want off grid Companies wish to deal directly with utilities and avoid helping state foot the bill. June 15, 2001 By KATE BERRY The Orange County Register California's business community is locked in a battle with energy regulators and lawmakers about how deregulation will ultimately pan out - and whether companies will be stuck paying most of the tab for the state's electricity crisis. Business groups want to continue down the road toward deregulation. They are lobbying politicians to pass legislation that would let companies buy electricity directly from power suppliers, bypassing the state's regulated utilities. ""In our hearts, we still believe we can make this a competitive market and get some cost savings,'' said Bill Dombrowski, president of the California Retailers Association, which represents 9,000 stores in the state, including Home Depot, Target and Albertson's. But Gov. Gray Davis' foray into long-term contracts, agreeing to pay $43 billion over 10 to 20 years for power, could squash that ambition. The state's Public Utilities Commission delayed a proposal June 7 to restrict companies from signing so-called ""direct access"" contracts with power providers. Regulators are expected to rule on the proposal next week. The debate over direct access is at the heart of a complicated attempt to solve California's costly power crisis. It will determine whether businesses, with residential customers, pay for the bulk of the state's future energy purchases. It also could determine whether Southern California Edison, the state's cash-strapped No. 2 utility, will avoid bankruptcy - and whether deregulation will survive in any form. ""The governor got it exactly wrong,'' said Peter Navarro, an economics professor at the University of California, Irvine, who is running for the San Diego City Council. ""The long-term contract strategy is a de facto re-regulation of the market because it eliminates the ability of industrial customers to bargain for a lower price.'' Direct access was a key component of the 1996 deregulation law, designed to break the monopoly of California's utilities. Under this concept, all customers could directly access an energy provider other than their regulated utility - just as they pick a long-distance phone company. Currently, 11,000 businesses and government entities have direct access, as well as about 77,000 residential customers - but some energy service providers, such as Enron Corp., are dropping their residential customers. Direct access is at the center of the latest Edison bailout plan, sponsored by Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley, D-Boulder Creek. Under the plan, the 3,600 largest businesses would agree to pay $3.1 billion of Edison's debts over 15 years. In exchange, businesses would be allowed to secure their own power contracts by 2003. But energy regulators may not let companies off the hook at such a bargain price. David Gamson, an energy adviser to PUC Commissioner Geoffrey F. Brown, said regulators are concerned that if businesses flee the system, the state will be stuck with too much electricity under long-term electricity contracts through 2021. That would mean residential ratepayers would be stuck paying the bulk of the $43 billion in future power costs. Complicating the issue is Wall Street. The state's bankers, led by J.P. Morgan, are nervous about selling as much as $13.4 billion in planned state bonds if businesses - now the largest ratepayers in the state after governments - find a way out of the system. The bonds are meant to repay the state for $8.2 billion in power-buying costs so far this year and to cover some future costs. Business and residential electricity customers would repay the bonds through a surcharge on their utility bills. If businesses are allowed to sign on with outside energy providers, that revenue stream would be in jeopardy. ""We have companies now that want to get below-cost power from the state, but when the market turns, they want to leave,'' said Lawrence Lingbloom, chief policy adviser on energy to Sen. Debra Bowen, D-Marina del Rey. ""Remaining customers would be left with those costs, and it would create a death spiral for the revenue stream.'' Consumer groups oppose direct access because it would allow businesses to avoid paying most of the costs of the energy crisis. ""Direct access is a policy that should be dead because it's a key adjunct to deregulation,'' said Doug Heller of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights in Santa Monica. ""But right now, it's a policy that's driving all the deals.'' Even as regulators and consumer groups try to snuff out direct access, business groups are lobbying to save it - with the help of key legislators. Two bills, one sponsored by Bowen, who heads the Senate energy committee, and a second by Assemblyman Dave Kelley, R-Hemet, would rescind language in previous legislation that gave the Public Utilities Commission authority to block direct access. Both proposals would require businesses to pay the state an ""exit fee.'' Those fees haven't yet been determined, but they would include a surcharge or a complicated calculation in which businesses would pay a percentage of future energy purchases. Companies say they don't want to pay. ""Direct access has allowed businesses to enter fixed- price contracts to get stable rates,'' said Shawn Covell, senior manager for governmental affairs at Qualcomm Inc. in San Diego. ""It's really unfair when you have businesses that have taken their time to protect themselves, to punish them.'' Qualcomm, which makes telecommunications equipment, saw its energy bills double to $6 million last year. The company signed a contract with an energy service provider, Strategic Energy in Carlsbad, and capped its rates. Otherwise, Covell said, its electricity costs would have doubled again this year. Sweetwater Union High School District in Chula Vista is a direct-access customer. The district, with 35,000 students, spends about $2 million a year on energy, said Jim Clark, its energy manager. His district won a ""watchdog award'' for efficiency from the San Diego County Taxpayers' Association because it locked in lower rates. When Gov. Gray Davis announced in January that the state would begin signing long-term contracts, Clark extended the district's contract through 2006 at 11 cents per kilowatt-hour - enabling it to save $1 million a year, he said. ""As soon as Davis made the announcement, we knew the market was going to move,'' he said. ""The market only changes when people buy. When the state of California steps to the plate, the price goes to the moon.'' Davis has maintained that the long-term contracts between the state and power suppliers helped bring down high spot market prices in recent weeks by removing demand from that market. But Clark and others who want to go the direct-access route fear the government will force businesses to pay for all the costs of the energy crisis, including rate increases of 38 percent to 49 percent, plus surcharges to pay off $13.4 billion in forthcoming state bonds. ""Businesses will be required to pay for the mistakes that the governor and the Legislature have made,'' he said. ""Who else is going to pay for it? Ultimately, it will fall on the heads of all consumers.'' Register staff writer Hanh Kim Quach contributed to this report. 
fyi re: state contracts.. 
thanks! 
FYI... see you on Thursday! 
fyi, info from Duke responding to charges made by ex-employees... 
Gary, I just sent this to your other e-mail address.  The Lt Gov. was in on this San Diego employee thing at the Dunn hearings, so this may come up. The credibility of these former SDG&E employees was very weak in the hearing and their allegations are absurd..... ________________________________________________________________________ To California news media covering electricity crisis: As a result of the false claims by three former San Diego Gas & Electric employees we have been in the news a bit lately. To add a bit of clarity to the situation I am sending you our release issued Friday that goes through each of the three claims and our response. To more fully understand the situation, please read the attached story that appeared in the LA Times yesterday. These reporters had the logs that were stolen from our South Bay Power Plant in Chula Vista more than two weeks ago.  We went through these log books line by line with these reporters. They also obtained confidential information from the Cal-ISO during these three days (January 16-18) that indicated that we were operating at their instruction when ramping up an down the units.  This is because the ISO purchased the ability to move the units up and down to help ensure the state's supply and demand is in balance.  This is a common practice and done every hour of every day by the ISO at plants that are able to provide this service. Its unfortunate that we were not allowed to respond to these charges when they were made formally in Senator Dunn's  committee hearing Friday (although the information was leaked way before the hearing by someone).  I understand that Governor Gray Davis is meeting with these former SDG&E employees tomorrow.  We had tried to personally meet with the governor last summer to offer very inexpensive long term power contracts and 2000 megawatts of peaking plants in 2001 and 2002 and were not able to. Tom Williams Director of Public Affairs Duke Energy North America Morro Bay, CA ______________________________________________________________________________ _____ Los Angeles Times via Dow Jones 
debate between me and Bustamonte This Thursday I will be a guest along with our favorite Lt Gov on California Capital Week.  I can't think of a worse time to have this, since Bustamonte is the point man on fhe three witnesses that participated in last Friday's public Senate Hearing on price manipulation.  So feed me your advice.  I am trying to take the high road, but I will warn you right now that if Bustamonte makes any of his outrageous statements in front of me, I will boldly correct him in no short order. gba 
I took a call from a reporter this morning about pricing info for May 9 (the reporter wants to make the point that the state overpaid for its contracts). I got the following info from Bob Badeer: May 9 -- prices at SP15 (location north of LA-south, but excluding LA) for July forward -- flat price, 7/24 5-year: $75/MWh 10-year: $63 today (6/28): 5-year: $42 
We're still getting traction from Skilling's remarks last week! State energy crisis may imperil future of deregulation, consumer choice By DON THOMPSON Associated Press Writer 06/27/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. SACRAMENTO (AP) - California's energy crisis may claim a substantial victim: deregulation itself. ""Never again will we embrace a free market - it's too expensive,"" Gov. Gray Davis' chief energy adviser, S. David Freeman, predicted Wednesday. ""The marketplace is blind to the need for cleaner air, it is blind to the needs of consumers in a shortage, and it produces a shortage with its volatility,"" the former head of the Los Angeles and Sacramento municipal power agencies told a Senate committee plotting California's energy future. The state's flawed 1996 law freed wholesale electricity rates while capping retail power prices, leaving the state's three investor-owned utilities trapped in between. Now the state has signed $43 billion worth of long-term energy contracts, and created a power authority that could build its own power plants. Its Public Utilities Commission stands ready to bar businesses from freely swapping power providers - the incentive that prompted deregulation in the first place. Davis wants lawmakers to approve buying the electricity transmission lines from two of the three cash-strapped utilities, and wants to buy the lines of the state's largest utility, Pacific Gas and Electric, out of bankruptcy court. Consumer groups say the state should buy the utilities' hydroelectric generation and other assets as well, as part of a return to regulation and a shift to publicly owned power supplies. ""Look what deregulation and handing our electricity supply over to a bunch of private companies has done for us - 50 percent (rate) increases and $20 billion in surcharges. Thank you very much, but no thank you,"" Harvey Rosenfield of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights said last week. He argued the state should buy all three utilities at their current ""fire-sale prices"" - ""We're talking about picking them up for a 
I got a call from Dow Jones today about a price we had posted on EnronOnline for day-ahead power at Mead for $105/MWh (the FERC proxy price is $91.87).  I talked to Tim Belden and just because an offer is posted doesn't mean that there's been a transaction.  Turns out that under our interpretation of the FERC order, because Friday for Monday transactions exceed the 24-hour delivery requirement, we believe they're exempt from the order.  Tim said that at the end of today, we had done five transactions above the cap, but they decided to lower the transaction price to the proxy price so we'd reduce 
California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
USA: UPDATE 1-PG&E utility gives Calpine debt priority status. 07/06/2001 Reuters English News Service (C) Reuters Limited 2001. (changes 1st paragraph, adds details, company statement) SAN JOSE, Calif., July 6 (Reuters) - Independent power generator Calpine Corp. said on Friday that its contracts with Pacific Gas and Electric Co. will be altered, ensuring that Calpine will continue to supply power to the bankrupt California utility and that it will get paid more than $250 million for power already sold. Calpine stocks rose more than 14 percent, or more than $5, to $43 after the announcement. As part of the contract modification, the $267 million, with interest, that the utility, a unit of PG&E Corp , owes Calpine in past due receivables under the contracts, will be elevated to ""administrative priority status,"" a claim which is paid before any other general unsecured creditors. Calpine will get the money, in a lump sum, as soon as PG&E has a confirmed reorganization plan, which can take as long as four to six months from now, Calpine said. The move is also a step in the process of untangling California's energy crisis, which stemmed from a flawed deregulation plan that has hit the state with a series of rolling blackouts. Under the agreement, Calpine will continue to receive its contractual capacity payments, but it has also set up a fixed rate contract for the next five years of about 5.37 cents per kilowatt-hour. The contracts are known as qualifying facility contracts because Calpine's power plants are qualifying facilities. These types of facilities represent more than 20 percent of the state's power supply and sell power generated from renewable energy sources to the regulated utilities. ""Calpine is the first power company to modify its QF contract with PG&E to ensure that Northern California consumers will continue to benefit from these affordable and reliable energy resources,"" Calpine senior vice president James Macias said in a statement. 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
Much Calif Power Price Gouging Beyond FERC's Reach -ISO By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 06/25/2001 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) LOS ANGELES -(Dow Jones)- Federal energy regulators only have the authority to order refunds for about a third of the $9 billion California Gov. Gray Davis claims energy companies have overcharged the state in the 12 months to May 2001, documents from the state's wholesale market operator show. Of the total, $2.9 billion came from the May-September period the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has said it can't act on, and $2.8 billion from the October-May period is attributable to municipal utilities over which FERC lacks jurisdiction, according to documents from the California Independent System Operator. That leaves just $3.3 billion in alleged overcharges that FERC could potentially order refunded - far less than the $9 billion Davis seeks. Talks between generators and state officials to settle billions of dollars in unpaid bills and issues of overcharging began Monday. Curtis Wagner, the FERC administrative law judge presiding over the talks, has said California will likely see refunds from generators, but far less than the $9 billion Davis expects. Davis said Sunday California is going to Washington, D.C., ""with one goal, 
You're the one bright spot in the California crisis!  I hate to even tell you, but I talked to Skilling this morning (cover shoot for Biz 2.0) and he watched the pie-throwing tv coverage and commented about your great shot! It's a classic expression, and if everyone didn't love you dearly, we wouldn't be having as much fun w/ it.  Did you ever watch?  :-) kd 
you're too cute!! 
fyi... 
Here's an article from the Contra Costa Times to add to your  clip list.? It includes a partial list of the companies and public entities  that sold power to the state from Jan. 18 through May 31, and the dollars  involved. ? Ken ? Published Tuesday, July 10,  2001 State discloses spot power  buys By Andrew  LaMar TIMES STAFF WRITER SACRAMENTO -- They range from small power  sales of $922,000 by the East Bay Municipal Utility District to more than $1  billion of power sold by Atlanta-based Mirant power company. All told, California paid $7.7  billion in spot purchases of electricity from 69 agencies across the United  States during the first five months of 2001, according to a report delivered to  lawmakers Monday. The data also shows that the state paid a hefty average of $263 per megawatt-hour for the power. But what's most striking is the long list of agencies, both private and public, that sold power to California. Agencies like the Los Angeles Department of Water & Power, $331 million;  the California Independent System Operator, $3.9 million; Public Service Company of New Mexico, $126 million; and PG&E Energy Trading Company, $24 million. Receiving the most money was Atlanta-based Mirant, which sold $1.2 billion of  electricity to the state January through May. The second-largest seller was  Powerex, a subsidiary of Canada's BC Hydro, which earned $1 billion. The total cost per day ranged from as little as $20 million to more than $100  million on three separate days in May, when hot weather and tight supplies  boosted spot market prices. In addition, the report reveals that the state's energy consultants significantly underestimated the amount of energy the state would need to buy in  April and May. Navigant Consulting, Inc., forecast the state would have to buy  12.1 million megawatt-hours for the two months but the state ended up purchasing  15.1 million megawatt-hours. The Sellers The following is a partial list of companies that sold electricity into the California spot power market from Jan. 18 through May 31. For a full list, go to  www.contracostatimes.com. Company name, total dollar amount: Allegheny Energy, $97,113,823 Arizona Public Services, $748,400 Automated Power Exchange, $2,541 Bonneville Power, $167,543,006 BP Energy, $110,776,576 California Department of Water Resources, $84,672,490 Calpine Energy, $29,169,658 City of Anaheim, $6,707,456 City of Burbank, $92,271,904 City of Glendale, $16,106,550 City of Redding, $85,280 City of Riverside, $62,700 City of Seattle, $2,461,225 City of Tacoma, $2,353,465 City of Vernon, $4,398,288 Commission de Federale Electricidad, $9,800,460 Duke Energy, $164,325,467 Dynegy, $296,294,363 East Bay Municipal Utility District, $922,560 El Paso Merchant Energy, $83,923,493 Enron Power Marketing, Inc., $44,276,800 Eugene Water & Electric Board, $94,147,219 Fresno Cogeration, $214,008 Grant County PUD, $49,013,211 Merrill Lynch Capital Services, $92,185,980 Modesto Irrigation District, $87,500 Morgan Stanley Capital Group, $8,864,625 Nevada Power Company, $25,378,035 PG&E Energy Trading Companies, $23,718,708 Portland General Electric Company, $354,821 Public Service Company of New Mexico, $126,799,436 Puget Sound Energy, $40,000 Reliant Energy Service, $122,598,810 Sacramento Municipal Utility District, $80,673,353 San Diego Gas & Electric, $5,768,380 Sempra Companies, $429,019,440 Silicon Valley Power (City of Santa Clara), $116,000 TransCanada Power, $38,829,528 Tucson Electric Power, $10,236,050 UC Davis Med Center, $1,141,600 U.S. Dept. of Energy, $2,605,855 
Political  Philosophies: Explained in Simple ""Two-Cow"" Terms with an Update for the  state of California Socialism: You have two cows. You keep one, but  must give the other to your neighbor. Communism: You have two cows.  The government takes both and provides you with milk. Fascism: You  have two cows. The government takes both and sells you the  milk. Bureaucracy: You have two cows. The government takes them,  shoots one, milks the other, pays you for the milk, and then pours it down  the drain. Dictatorship: You have two cows. The government takes both,  then shoots you. Capitalism: You have two cows. You sell one and buy a  bull. Democracy: You have two cows. The government taxes you to the  point that you must sell them both to support a man in a foreign country who  has only one cow, which was a gift from your own  government. Corporation: You have two cows. You lay one off, force the  other to produce the milk of four cows, then act surprised when it drops  dead. California: You have two cows. The state tells you how to milk  your cows, when to milk your cows, how much to milk your cows and the most  that you can charge for the milk. You go broke and sell the cows. The state  calls you 
Do you find it odd (timing especially) that an LADWP press release includes= a=20 quote from the governor's office? Neutrogena and LADWP Brighten Energy Outlook With City's Largest Corporate= =20 Solar Power System; State and City Officials Encourage Corporate Sector to= =20 Use Solar Power LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 12, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Neutrogena Corporation, a Johnson &amp; Johnson company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power announced today, the completion of a 200-kilowatt $1.4 million solar power system at the company's headquarters, located near LAX. The system was made possible through the LADWP Solar Incentive Program that substantially lowers the purchase price of such systems for the municipally owned utility's customers. The solar system covers 24,000 square feet of roof area and will help reduce the company's energy consumption by approximately 20 percent monthly. ""This is the type of leadership the people of California need from the corporate sector to successfully meet the energy consumption demands in the State,"" said Dr. Woodrow Clark, senior policy analyst, energy and reliability for California Governor Gray Davis. ""I commend the LADWP for their promotion of solar energy, and strongly encourage 
We've scheduled a call for 2 p.m. CDT Wednesday to discuss our legal and PR strategy for dealing with the subpoena issue between now and Aug. 20. The call-in information is: 888-232-3866, participant code 287424.  For those in Houston, we will meet in 4701. Jeff -- please forward to Bev. Thanks! 
This certainly could be Enron... > > (See attached file: cubicle hurdles.mpg) 
OK, here's the deal.  Gary Fergus has transcripts through July 11 and a video tape for July 16.  I'm having his office fed-ex all transcripts and the tape to me for delivery tomorrow.  I just realized you should also probably have a copy.  I don't have your office address, so call Jane at 415-442-1284 and have her make copies of the transcripts for you, too.  I'll have the videotape dubbed and will send you a copy of that. It's going to be a fun weekend. Wheeee.... 
Jeff -- Here's the info for Monday: Marathon Communications Inc. 8436 West Third Street, suite 700 Los Angeles 90048 323-655-4660 We'll be meeting with Joan Kradin (svp) and Rich Lichtenstein (president) at 11 a.m.  I've told them we'll spend a couple of hours going over our issues and concerns with California (regulatory, commercial, legal, public perception, etc...) as well as our current activities (ENA, EES, etc.) and what we'd like to do going forward.   They'll then put together a plan and we can get them on retainer by Nov. 1. What other agencies do we have on retainer? (McNally Temple, the guy who did the focus groups, etc.)  Do you know what their monthly retainer is?  I'd like to get a sense of what we're already spending. Looking forward to seeing you Monday.  Have a great weekend! 
You're certainly becoming a regular on the energy speaker's circuit!  How'd your event last Thursday go?  I'm sure you charmed their regulatory panels... 
I just approved you as a reviewer for Jeannie Mandelker and now I'm curious... what's your middle name, Jeffrey O? 
Is there any way you can do a conference call at 1:30?  We can talk about FERC issues after Sandi signs off. 
The last FERC panel sounds like it had quite a few testy exchanges.... Calif Officials Tell FERC To Face 'Political Reality' 11/09/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Bryan Lee OF DOW JONES NEWSWIRES WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The political uproar generated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's decision that it had no legal authority to order refunds in California's high-flying power market washed up on the agency's doorstep Thursday. California's governor and other government leaders banded together to criticize FERC at a public meeting Thursday, one week after FERC issued an order proposing market reforms for California. California Gov. Gray Davis delivered a stinging rebuke of the commission via videotape, as state legislators testified that FERC must act quickly or the state's voters may take things into their own hands with a ballot initiative. Davis summed up the discontent by noting that FERC had concluded that prices in California's first-in-the-nation deregulated electricity market were neither just nor reasonable, but ""you are not willing to do anything about 
great Herbert quote on the issue of refunds... FERC GOP Commissioner To Skip San Diego Hearings Tue By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 11/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Explaining that the California electricity crisis has become ""a political nightmare,"" the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's lone Republican Party commissioner has decided not to attend hearings in San Diego on Tuesday. ""I don't expect you will see anything happen tomorrow,"" the commissioner, Curt Hebert, said. ""California would rather fight this out for the next five to ten years rather than take steps now to solve the problem,"" said Hebert. Hebert, who is in San Diego this week attending a conference of energy regulators, said that he had requested the hearings be held on a different day due to a conflict in his schedule. But another reason Hebert won't attend Tuesday's hearings, he said, is because California Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, skipped FERC hearings in Washington last week. The governor sent a videotaped message to be played at the hearings, and in it he severely criticized FERC's proposed solutions to California's problems as totally inadequate. Davis explained to the FERC that he couldn't go to Washington Thursday because Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, was visiting California. Hebert said that California lawmakers aren't focusing on solving the state's electricity crisis, but rather are simply using it for political gain. ""What's going to kill California's electricity market in the end is all the politicizing,"" he said. Hebert expects to see more companies withdraw projects for building new power plants in the state, as Enron Corp (ENE) and Calpine Corp (CPN) did two weeks ago. As a result, Hebert expects blackouts in the state next summer, as well as continued high prices in the wholesale power market. Although he formally concurred with FERC's proposed order on ways to repairs the state's power market, he said that it should go further in ending price caps in California's power market. Unless California addresses the issue of 
fyi... 
- SignOn San Diego Metro -- FERC fails duty, Peace says.htm 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
Here's the letter to the CPUC.... 
FYI... 
Reliant has recently joined the California Taxpayers Association and I attended their Board meeting last week.  I recommend that all CA generators and market participants join the group.  It is likely that there will be tax legislation impacting our industry; it would be to our advantage to have an active, well-respected group on our side during any legislative battles.  When there was a threat of a windfall profits tax on  the gasoline companies earlier this year, Cal-Tax responded quickly and helped stop the effort. As the legislative rhetoric heats up we need to start thinking about becoming more proactive.  This membership is one way of getting help on tax issues.  I encourage others to suggest other proactive steps we might take individually or as a group.  And while I'm at it ---  I also recommend membership in Cal. Manufacturers Assoc. The Cal-Tax membership is very reasonable, $10,000 for a Board position and 5,000 for corporate non-Board level.  The group has very good information and email services which your tax people would appreciate.  For information on membership, pls call Joyce Showalter, 530/335-4032.  Currently Duke and Reliant are board members; I'm not sure if any others are members.  Pls call if you have questions. 
YIPPEEE!!! 
Karen: Our friends in the Speaker's office have requested for a copy of the Steve Peace tape.  Mr. Peace's office is supposed to send a copy to the Speaker's office next week.  We will Fed-Ex a copy to you as soon as we receive it. Happy Thanksgiving. Sandra 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
I'm slow in going through email... here's an update 
J -- I just talked to our team at Marathon and they're really jazzed about next Tuesday's meeting.  They're really looking to identify ways that they can add to our strategy -- politically and publicly -- so they'll likely come up with a plan with some recommendations after the meeting. One thing we were supposed to send to them (which I forgot) was the Luntz survey.  I don't think I ever saw it.  Do you have a copy?  Could you forward to me and I'll send on? Thanks -- you're the best! 
fyi 
- SignOn San Diego Business -- Suits charge electricity price gouging.htm 
The following is a statement for use in response to the lawsuit filed in San Diego today: ""This is a publicity stunt.  Three separate federal and state regulatory agencies have investigated the allegations rehashed in this lawsuit and found that no market power was exercised in California.  This lawsuit is completely without merit and is yet another attempt to fix blame rather than fix the problem in California. California needs a strong forward market so utilities can hedge out the volatility in the spot power market and California needs incentives for 
FYI... 
Last night, Debra Bowen held a community meeting to discuss electricity deregulation.  Carl Wood, Art Rosenfeld, Henry Martinez and Don Cunningham of DWP, and Gary Shurman (sp?) of SCE were speakers. All speakers emphasized the importance of demand side management.  There was little discussion anything else. Mr. Wood stated that deregulation was fatally flawed, that the wholesale market had failed and that generators had figured out how to game the market. Bowen indicated that one element of the Governor's plan will focus on energy conservation.  She reviewed specifics of AB 970. The SCE representative said that the state needed to regain oversight control of the market.  He stated that the market was dysfunctional and that market manipulation has caused extreme prices.  He also stated that it was unlikely that the state would prevail in receiving refunds from generators. Commissioner Wood agreed saying that generators made incredible profits and siphoned them out of California.  Regarding the uncollected debt, Wood said that the debt belongs to Edison but that the PUC cannot allow the utility companies to go bankrupt. Wood said that Edison and ratepayers would probably repay debt.  He indicated that the State may be able to recover some of the profit from marketers and generators but that this may not be able to be achieved through the courts. SCE representative stated that it is easier to talk about price gouging than it is to put together a lawsuit.  He reminded the audience that generators are all out of state and that it has been difficult to obtain information from generators. Bowen said that it was important to remember that it was not just the generators but also brokers that overcharged for electricity. When asked about how California got into this situation, who was to blame, and what could be done to punish generators, Bowen responded that she would rather focus on things that can be done in the short term to prepare residents for higher electricity costs. 
fyi 
- Mercury Center Special Report.htm 
Is it 11 a.m. PST or central?  I've got a conflict around 11 a.m. Houston time.  If it's 11 a.m. PST, I can do it.  Let me know.  thx. kd Susan J Mara 12/07/2000 08:00 AM 
I'll be in the air.  Can one of you call in? 
Greetings: My apologies for the delay in sending out this message. We will be holding a PR call tomorrow at 11:00 a.m. to discuss this week's session as well as ongoing PR efforts responsive to recent announcements and what we are doing to move forward. Agenda Includes: o McNally/Temple Update/Upcoming issues o Edson/Modisette Update/upcoming issues o Upcoming Meetings o Coalition Building The call in number is 888-232-0365 Pass code:   111756 Let me know if you want to add anything to the rough agenda. Thanks! Katie Kaplan Manager of State Policy Affairs Independent Energy Producers Association (916) 448-9499 
--even in Decem 
fyi... 
--even in Decem - Overload-Why the state can't keep up with the demand for energy --even in December.htm 
I did some checking, and we ARE able to send phonemail messages to multiple locations.  When you are prompted to enter the extensions, use the following codes: San Francisco: 415+XXXX (last four digits of the number) Portland: 28+XXXXX (last five digits of the number) Houston: 853+XXXX (last four digits of the number) If you have problems, let me know. 
pls review.  i've asked them to provide cost estimates and a list of the 25-50 key tech leaders.  will let you know what i hear back.  bullets are coming... 
Karen: Please review the attached memo and let us know how you would like to proceed. Thanks. Sandra - Near-term, 2000-2001.doc 
Working with Marathon to develop a PR strategy for December and 1Q01.  Will circulate the plan early this week for comments and buy-in. Jeff -- just a note... the energy situation in CA has already escalated into a crisis and is on the front-burner of elected officials, the media, business and the public (so if one of our goals was to create a sense of crisis, it's been taken care of).  We need to take advantage of this heightened awareness with an educational campaign.  It's an opportune time to communicate our messages. Let me know what else you need. Thanks! 
fyi, i returned the call. 
J -- do you have Frank's phone number? any info about the focus group video? Let me know so I can pass along to Marathon.  Thanks! kd 
Karen Rich spoke with Frank regarding focus group video and polling results. Frank said that he would be happy to release poll results if he gets approval from someone at Enron.  Can you facilitate this? Also, Frank said that he does not have a copy of the focus group video.  Can you obtain a copy for Rich? Thanks. Sandra 
fyi... 
For what its worth, I forgot to include the latest rumor, picked up yesterday: As a result of Julian Dixon's death, there's a free-for-all underway on who's going to run for his Congressional seat.  Rod Wright is definitely considering it, and has begun making phone calls to test the waters/gather support. - winmail.dat 
I'm checking w/ EES to see if they have any generic brochures, etc. on energy conservation or a glossary of terms. 
Attached is the PR plan prepared by Marathon for December and 1Q01.   I've also attached the draft CEO email specified in the plan and the target list of key industrial and technology leaders in California.   Please review the plan and preliminary messages.  Keep in mind that as the holidays are approaching rapidly, we need to move quickly to begin implementing the PR plan.  Please let me know by Friday, Dec. 15 if you have any comments, concerns or suggestions. Thank you. Karen 
Enron: ISO Credit Problems Are Those Of Calif Utilities Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 12/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Mark Golden NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The credit problems of the California Independent System Operator reflect the credit problems of the state's three investor-owned utilities, Enron Corp. (ENE) chief of staff Steven Kean said Wednesday. ""We have expressed some concerns about the utilities' creditworthiness,"" Kean said. ""They wouldn't have this credit issue if they had a government 
Please see following news article and White House press release: Clinton Offers Federal Funds for Electricity Woes in California 08/23/2000 Dow Jones Business News (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- President Clinton will direct federal agencies to provide financial assistance to low-income families and small businesses in Southern California to help them cope with high electricity bills, the White House said. California utility regulators earlier this week imposed a partial rate cap on electric bills for San Diego residents, responding to public panic about power prices that have more than doubled this summer because of volatility in the state's deregulated energy market. The deregulation of California's $20 billion power market was supposed to lower prices by creating greater competition. But demand for electricity has outstripped supply because of a booming economy and less power available from other areas. Clinton ordered the release of $2.6 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program to help low-income families while the Small Business Administration will urge its lending partners to use SBA credit programs to help small businesses with their energy costs. In addition, Mr. Clinton has called on Energy Secretary Bill Richardson to ask the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to speed up an investigation into the wholesale market for electricity ""so that state and federal regulators and policy makers can have the information they need to protect 
Any chance you can find out if Angelides has found someone to carry his proposal in the Legislature?  Thanks! kd 
fyi... Yahoo - Finding Winners in Utilities Deregulation 
Davis Wants Generators to Accept Less Than Owed (Update2) 2/28/1 18:56 (New York) Davis Wants Generators to Accept Less Than Owed (Update2) (Adds names of California generators in fifth paragraph, and Reliant comment in sixth.) New York, Feb. 28 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis said he intends to ask power generators to accept partial payment for power sold to the state's cash-strapped utilities this summer and winter, Wall Street analysts who attended a closed-door meeting with the governor said. ``It looks like the people he wants sharing the pain are the companies generating power sold to utilities,'' said Kevin Boone, a bond analyst with Bear, Stearns & Co. who attended the meeting in New York. ``He wants to force them to take cents on the dollar. That seems to be what his initial proposal will be.'' PG&E Corp.'s Pacific Gas & Electric, and Edison International's Southern California Edison, the state's largest utilities, are near bankruptcy after accumulating more than $12 billion in debt buying power from generators at soaring prices. Regulators have not let the utilities pass on most of their power- buying debt to consumers. Davis said some generators have approached him with offers to accept less than full payment, said Michael Worms, a utility analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co. Davis spoke to about 35 analysts from Wall Street and energy-research firms in New York in a meeting that was criticized by investors and analysts who were not allowed to attend. No Names Mentioned Davis didn't specify which companies came to him with partial- payment proposals, analysts said. Duke Energy Corp., Calpine Corp., Willams Cos., Dynegy Inc. and Reliant Energy Inc. are among the biggest suppliers of electricity to California utilities. ``I'm not aware of him talking to anyone at Duke about forgiveness,'' Duke Energy spokesman Tom Williams said. Reliant spokesman Richard Wheatley said Davis's proposal ``doesn't really come as a surprise'' because politicians in Sacramento, the capital of California, have been discussing the idea for weeks. Reliant has opposed anything other than full payment of its debts. ``Williams fully expects to be paid the money that is owed us,'' spokeswoman Paula Hall-Collins said. ``We have worked in very good faith with the state, selling voluntarily into the market, negotiating with them for long-term contracts and working with them to solve the problem.'' Enron Corp., an energy trader that has set aside unspecified reserve for possible losses in California, has not been approached about debt forgiveness, said Karen Denne, a company spokeswoman. ``This proposal. . . is news to us,'' and does not address the immediate problem of electricity shortages in California this summer, Denne said. Industry analysts say California, which has already had scattered blackouts this winter, will face more this summer when power demand surges. Buying the Grid Davis said at the meeting that negotiations to buy PG&E Corp.'s power transmission system may take another 30 days, though he was optimistic an agreement could be reached within two weeks, analysts said. He offered few other specifics on the PG&E talks, said Steve Fetter, group managing director of global power for Fitch Inc. State officials are trying to reach agreement with PG&E and Edison, as well as with Sempra Energy, to buy their transmission lines as part of a plan to help them pay debt and borrow money at low interest rates to avoid bankruptcy. A tentative agreement to buy Edison's lines for $2.76 billion was reached last week. Talks with Sempra are continuing. The governor said he was optimistic an agreement with PG&E could be reached in two weeks, but negotiations could drag on longer, Fetter said. ``We are making progress,'' Davis said at a news conference after the analysts meeting at the Cornell Club on the east side of Manhattan. ``We are close to a final agreement with (Edison) and relatively close with Sempra.'' The governor told analysts he's confident he can get a utility rescue plan that doesn't require an immediate rate increase, but Davis did say that rate increases are going to be needed at some unspecified time in the future, Fetter said. Davis said he wasn't sure if he resolved all of analysts' doubts about California's plans to save its utilities from bankruptcy. ``He's in a hole and he's got a long way to go to get out of it,'' said Paul Patterson, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston who attended the meeting. ``We still don't have a final solution in sight.'' Shares of San Francisco-based PG&E fell 9 cents to $13.96. Rosemead, California-based Edison shares fell 4 cents to $14.90. San Diego-based Sempra fell 16 cents to $22.15. --Mark Johnson and Jonathan Berr in New York (212) 318-2300 or mjohnson7@bloomberg.net and jberr@bloomberg.net with reporting by Margot Habiby in Dallas and Jim Kennett in Houston/alp 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
fyi 
30 days is hardly long-term.... i think we should call him on it. 
We don't stand a chance... Can you imagine working for a company that has a little more than 500 employees and has the following statistics: *29 have been accused of spousal abuse *7 have been arrested for fraud *19 have been accused of writing bad checks *117 have directly or indirectly bankrupted at leased 2 businesses *3 have done time for assault *71 cannot get a credit card due to bad credit *14 have been arrested on drug-related charges *8 have been arrested for shoplifting *21 are currently defendants in lawsuits *84 have been arrested for drunk driving in the last year Can you guess which organization this is? Give up yet? It's the 535 members of the United States Congress.  The same group that cranks out hundreds of new laws each year designed to keep the rest of us 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
An attorney for Reliant sent a letter on behalf of five Southern California Edison creditors (Reliant, Mirant, Dynegy, Enron, Puget Sound Energy) to SCE today requesting a meeting to discuss the terms of a forbearance agreement.  The following is the statement we are using with the media: 
We've scheduled a call for 2 p.m. CDT Wednesday to discuss our legal and PR strategy for dealing with the subpoena issue between now and Aug. 20. The call-in information is: 888-232-3866, participant code 287424.  For those in Houston, we will meet in 4701. Jeff -- please forward to Bev. Thanks! 
Do you find it odd (timing especially) that an LADWP press release includes a quote from the governor's office? Neutrogena and LADWP Brighten Energy Outlook With City's Largest Corporate Solar Power System; State and City Officials Encourage Corporate Sector to Use Solar Power LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 12, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Neutrogena Corporation, a Johnson &amp; Johnson company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power announced today, the completion of a 200-kilowatt $1.4 million solar power system at the company's headquarters, located near LAX. The system was made possible through the LADWP Solar Incentive Program that substantially lowers the purchase price of such systems for the municipally owned utility's customers. The solar system covers 24,000 square feet of roof area and will help reduce the company's energy consumption by approximately 20 percent monthly. ""This is the type of leadership the people of California need from the corporate sector to successfully meet the energy consumption demands in the State,"" said Dr. Woodrow Clark, senior policy analyst, energy and reliability for California Governor Gray Davis. ""I commend the LADWP for their promotion of solar energy, and strongly encourage 
Political  Philosophies: Explained in Simple ""Two-Cow"" Terms with an Update for the  state of California Socialism: You have two cows. You keep one, but  must give the other to your neighbor. Communism: You have two cows.  The government takes both and provides you with milk. Fascism: You  have two cows. The government takes both and sells you the  milk. Bureaucracy: You have two cows. The government takes them,  shoots one, milks the other, pays you for the milk, and then pours it down  the drain. Dictatorship: You have two cows. The government takes both,  then shoots you. Capitalism: You have two cows. You sell one and buy a  bull. Democracy: You have two cows. The government taxes you to the  point that you must sell them both to support a man in a foreign country who  has only one cow, which was a gift from your own  government. Corporation: You have two cows. You lay one off, force the  other to produce the milk of four cows, then act surprised when it drops  dead. California: You have two cows. The state tells you how to milk  your cows, when to milk your cows, how much to milk your cows and the most  that you can charge for the milk. You go broke and sell the cows. The state  calls you 
fyi... 
Here's an article from the Contra Costa Times to add to your  clip list.  It includes a partial list of the companies and public entities  that sold power to the state from Jan. 18 through May 31, and the dollars  involved. Ken Published Tuesday, July 10,  2001 State discloses spot power  buys By Andrew  LaMar TIMES STAFF WRITER SACRAMENTO -- They range from small power  sales of $922,000 by the East Bay Municipal Utility District to more than $1  billion of power sold by Atlanta-based Mirant power company. All told, California paid $7.7  billion in spot purchases of electricity from 69 agencies across the United  States during the first five months of 2001, according to a report delivered to  lawmakers Monday. The data also shows that the state paid a hefty average of $263 per  megawatt-hour for the power. But what's most striking is the long list of  agencies, both private and public, that sold power to California. Agencies like the Los Angeles Department of Water & Power, $331 million;  the California Independent System Operator, $3.9 million; Public Service Company  of New Mexico, $126 million; and PG&E Energy Trading Company, $24 million. Receiving the most money was Atlanta-based Mirant, which sold $1.2 billion of  electricity to the state January through May. The second-largest seller was  Powerex, a subsidiary of Canada's BC Hydro, which earned $1 billion. The total cost per day ranged from as little as $20 million to more than $100  million on three separate days in May, when hot weather and tight supplies  boosted spot market prices. In addition, the report reveals that the state's energy consultants  significantly underestimated the amount of energy the state would need to buy in  April and May. Navigant Consulting, Inc., forecast the state would have to buy  12.1 million megawatt-hours for the two months but the state ended up purchasing  15.1 million megawatt-hours. The Sellers The following is a partial list of companies that sold electricity into the  California spot power market from Jan. 18 through May 31. For a full list, go to  www.contracostatimes.com . Company name, total dollar amount: Allegheny Energy, $97,113,823 Arizona Public Services, $748,400 Automated Power Exchange, $2,541 Bonneville Power, $167,543,006 BP Energy, $110,776,576 California Department of Water Resources, $84,672,490 Calpine Energy, $29,169,658 City of Anaheim, $6,707,456 City of Burbank, $92,271,904 City of Glendale, $16,106,550 City of Redding, $85,280 City of Riverside, $62,700 City of Seattle, $2,461,225 City of Tacoma, $2,353,465 City of Vernon, $4,398,288 Commission de Federale Electricidad, $9,800,460 Duke Energy, $164,325,467 Dynegy, $296,294,363 East Bay Municipal Utility District, $922,560 El Paso Merchant Energy, $83,923,493 Enron Power Marketing, Inc., $44,276,800 Eugene Water & Electric Board, $94,147,219 Fresno Cogeration, $214,008 Grant County PUD, $49,013,211 Merrill Lynch Capital Services, $92,185,980 Modesto Irrigation District, $87,500 Morgan Stanley Capital Group, $8,864,625 Nevada Power Company, $25,378,035 PG&E Energy Trading Companies, $23,718,708 Portland General Electric Company, $354,821 Public Service Company of New Mexico, $126,799,436 Puget Sound Energy, $40,000 Reliant Energy Service, $122,598,810 Sacramento Municipal Utility District, $80,673,353 San Diego Gas & Electric, $5,768,380 Sempra Companies, $429,019,440 Silicon Valley Power (City of Santa Clara), $116,000 TransCanada Power, $38,829,528 Tucson Electric Power, $10,236,050 UC Davis Med Center, $1,141,600 U.S. Dept. of Energy, $2,605,855 
you're too cute!! 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. 
Enron Still Target in California Amid Other Problems (Update1) 2001-10-26 16:15 (New York) Enron Still Target in California Amid Other Problems (Update1) (Updates with closing share price in last paragraph.) Sacramento, California, Oct. 26 (Bloomberg) -- Enron Corp., facing an inquiry by federal securities regulators into partnerships run by the former chief financial officer, remains a target of investigations and lawsuits in California. California lawmakers and regulators have accused power providers of manipulating the state's energy market to raise prices. Enron, the biggest energy trader, and other power sellers have denied the charges repeatedly. Next month, a California Senate committee investigating the power market plans to hold a hearing to determine if Enron and other generators are complying with subpoenas for trading documents. Enron has been filing documents in Sacramento, California. ``They are still putting documents in their depository, and I don't think they've completed that process,'' said Alexandra Montgomery, a consultant to the committee. It ``remains to be seen'' whether Enron is complying with its subpoena, she said. The suits and inquiries came after wholesale power prices in California soared, leaving the state's two largest utilities insolvent. Under California's plan to open its electricity market to competition, the utilities of PG&E Corp. and Edison International weren't allowed to pass rising costs to customers. ``I know that we're doing our best to comply with what the committee is asking for,'' Enron spokesman Mark Palmer. ``We are putting documents in the depository, and we're looking forward to a speedy resolution.'' Shares of Houston-based Enron have fallen by more than half since Oct. 16. The company ousted Andrew Fastow as the chief financial officer Wednesday amid a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry into a partnership he ran that cost Enron $35 million. Grand Jury Enron also is one of the companies being investigated for civil and criminal violations by California Attorney General Bill Lockyer, who convened a grand jury in June. Lockyer has been criticized by Enron officials for telling the Wall Street Journal in May that he would like to put Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay in ``an 8 x 10 cell that he could share with a tattooed dude who says `Hi my name is Spike, honey.' '' Lockyer later apologized for the remark. The attorney general's investigation is proceeding, Lockyer spokeswoman Sandra Michioku said. Michioku said she didn't know when civil or criminal charges against Enron or other power providers might be filed. ``Our investigation is still being pursued,'' she said. ``We had to go to court to get Enron to turn over documents, so that slowed things down a bit.'' Enron's Palmer said he didn't know the status of the attorney general's investigation. ``I think the attorney general demonstrated his willingness to take a fair and impartial look a long time ago when he made his vulgar and unfounded remarks about our chairman,'' Palmer said. More Lawsuits Enron, along with other major power providers such as Duke Energy Corp. and Dynegy Inc., face at least five lawsuits alleging they manipulated California energy prices in violation of antitrust laws. The cases, which include separate complaints filed by the City of San Francisco, California Lieutenant Governor Cruz Bustamante and various consumers, currently are in state courts awaiting a coordination proceeding, said Michael Aguirre, a lawyer representing Bustamante. The lawsuits should be assigned to a judge by the end of next month, he said. If the complaints succeed, the companies might be ordered to repay profits from any illegal activities and pay fines, including triple damages. Enron's stock fell 95 cents, or 5.8 percent, to $15.40, declining for the eighth day in a row. The shares have fallen 80 percent in the past 12 months. 
Cooperation 
Cooperation 
An attorney for Reliant sent a letter on behalf of five Southern California Edison creditors (Reliant, Mirant, Dynegy, Enron, Puget Sound Energy) to SCE today requesting a meeting to discuss the terms of a forbearance agreement.  The following is the statement we are using with the media: 
You're undoubtedly getting calls and questions about the recent media coverage.  Given the SEC inquiry and a slew of lawsuits, we are limited in what we can say.  However, we have compiled Frequently Asked Questions and posted them on the web, so feel free to direct people there:  www.enron.com/corp/pressroom/faq.html.  The most recent press releases are also posted on the web in the press room.  We are working on additional questions and answers that will be posted as soon as they are approved.  If you have specific questions, please let me know. Thanks! 
How come FERC has finalized their report without our comments?!  We need to be prepared to respond when they issue their report -- we can line up broadcast interviews (CNBC, CNN) in response -- and also target specific publications.  We'll need to prepare ""sound bite"" messages based on our filing (I haven't seen it yet, but Mary Hain is supposed to be sending it). Keep me posted on the time and place of the Nov. 1 press conference.  Also, are we participating in the Nov. 9 public hearing?  Let me know. thx. kd 
fyi... Yahoo - Finding Winners in Utilities Deregulation 
OK, here's the deal.  Gary Fergus has transcripts through July 11 and a video tape for July 16.  I'm having his office fed-ex all transcripts and the tape to me for delivery tomorrow.  I just realized you should also probably have a copy.  I don't have your office address, so call Jane at 415-442-1284 and have her make copies of the transcripts for you, too.  I'll have the videotape dubbed and will send you a copy of that. It's going to be a fun weekend. Wheeee.... 
J -- is this what you're attending?  Are you speaking?  Is media attending? kd ELECTRICITY SUMMIT AT U.C. BERKELEY, NOVEMBER 13, 2000 U.C. Berkeley's Goldman School of Public Policy, with additional support from the U.C. Berkeley's Competition Policy Center and the U.C. Energy Institute, will host a meeting of industry representatives, policy makers, consumers representatives, legislators and researchers to discuss the electricity restructuring experience and potential solutions to the difficulties that California and other governments have encountered.  The summit will run from 12:30-6pm with two roundtable discussions that will include a wide variety of viewpoints. For registration information and further details, go to: 
This certainly could be Enron... > > (See attached file: cubicle hurdles.mpg) 
We've scheduled a call for 2 p.m. CDT Wednesday to discuss our legal and PR strategy for dealing with the subpoena issue between now and Aug. 20. The call-in information is: 888-232-3866, participant code 287424.  For those in Houston, we will meet in 4701. Jeff -- please forward to Bev. Thanks! 
Do you find it odd (timing especially) that an LADWP press release includes= a=20 quote from the governor's office? Neutrogena and LADWP Brighten Energy Outlook With City's Largest Corporate= =20 Solar Power System; State and City Officials Encourage Corporate Sector to= =20 Use Solar Power LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 12, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Neutrogena Corporation, a Johnson &amp; Johnson company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power announced today, the completion of a 200-kilowatt $1.4 million solar power system at the company's headquarters, located near LAX. The system was made possible through the LADWP Solar Incentive Program that substantially lowers the purchase price of such systems for the municipally owned utility's customers. The solar system covers 24,000 square feet of roof area and will help reduce the company's energy consumption by approximately 20 percent monthly. ""This is the type of leadership the people of California need from the corporate sector to successfully meet the energy consumption demands in the State,"" said Dr. Woodrow Clark, senior policy analyst, energy and reliability for California Governor Gray Davis. ""I commend the LADWP for their promotion of solar energy, and strongly encourage 
Political  Philosophies: Explained in Simple ""Two-Cow"" Terms with an Update for the  state of California Socialism: You have two cows. You keep one, but  must give the other to your neighbor. Communism: You have two cows.  The government takes both and provides you with milk. Fascism: You  have two cows. The government takes both and sells you the  milk. Bureaucracy: You have two cows. The government takes them,  shoots one, milks the other, pays you for the milk, and then pours it down  the drain. Dictatorship: You have two cows. The government takes both,  then shoots you. Capitalism: You have two cows. You sell one and buy a  bull. Democracy: You have two cows. The government taxes you to the  point that you must sell them both to support a man in a foreign country who  has only one cow, which was a gift from your own  government. Corporation: You have two cows. You lay one off, force the  other to produce the milk of four cows, then act surprised when it drops  dead. California: You have two cows. The state tells you how to milk  your cows, when to milk your cows, how much to milk your cows and the most  that you can charge for the milk. You go broke and sell the cows. The state  calls you 
fyi... 
Here's an article from the Contra Costa Times to add to your  clip list.? It includes a partial list of the companies and public entities  that sold power to the state from Jan. 18 through May 31, and the dollars  involved. ? Ken ? Published Tuesday, July 10,  2001 State discloses spot power  buys By Andrew  LaMar TIMES STAFF WRITER SACRAMENTO -- They range from small power  sales of $922,000 by the East Bay Municipal Utility District to more than $1  billion of power sold by Atlanta-based Mirant power company. All told, California paid $7.7  billion in spot purchases of electricity from 69 agencies across the United  States during the first five months of 2001, according to a report delivered to  lawmakers Monday. The data also shows that the state paid a hefty average of $263 per megawatt-hour for the power. But what's most striking is the long list of agencies, both private and public, that sold power to California. Agencies like the Los Angeles Department of Water & Power, $331 million;  the California Independent System Operator, $3.9 million; Public Service Company of New Mexico, $126 million; and PG&E Energy Trading Company, $24 million. Receiving the most money was Atlanta-based Mirant, which sold $1.2 billion of  electricity to the state January through May. The second-largest seller was  Powerex, a subsidiary of Canada's BC Hydro, which earned $1 billion. The total cost per day ranged from as little as $20 million to more than $100  million on three separate days in May, when hot weather and tight supplies  boosted spot market prices. In addition, the report reveals that the state's energy consultants significantly underestimated the amount of energy the state would need to buy in  April and May. Navigant Consulting, Inc., forecast the state would have to buy  12.1 million megawatt-hours for the two months but the state ended up purchasing  15.1 million megawatt-hours. The Sellers The following is a partial list of companies that sold electricity into the California spot power market from Jan. 18 through May 31. For a full list, go to  www.contracostatimes.com. Company name, total dollar amount: Allegheny Energy, $97,113,823 Arizona Public Services, $748,400 Automated Power Exchange, $2,541 Bonneville Power, $167,543,006 BP Energy, $110,776,576 California Department of Water Resources, $84,672,490 Calpine Energy, $29,169,658 City of Anaheim, $6,707,456 City of Burbank, $92,271,904 City of Glendale, $16,106,550 City of Redding, $85,280 City of Riverside, $62,700 City of Seattle, $2,461,225 City of Tacoma, $2,353,465 City of Vernon, $4,398,288 Commission de Federale Electricidad, $9,800,460 Duke Energy, $164,325,467 Dynegy, $296,294,363 East Bay Municipal Utility District, $922,560 El Paso Merchant Energy, $83,923,493 Enron Power Marketing, Inc., $44,276,800 Eugene Water & Electric Board, $94,147,219 Fresno Cogeration, $214,008 Grant County PUD, $49,013,211 Merrill Lynch Capital Services, $92,185,980 Modesto Irrigation District, $87,500 Morgan Stanley Capital Group, $8,864,625 Nevada Power Company, $25,378,035 PG&E Energy Trading Companies, $23,718,708 Portland General Electric Company, $354,821 Public Service Company of New Mexico, $126,799,436 Puget Sound Energy, $40,000 Reliant Energy Service, $122,598,810 Sacramento Municipal Utility District, $80,673,353 San Diego Gas & Electric, $5,768,380 Sempra Companies, $429,019,440 Silicon Valley Power (City of Santa Clara), $116,000 TransCanada Power, $38,829,528 Tucson Electric Power, $10,236,050 UC Davis Med Center, $1,141,600 U.S. Dept. of Energy, $2,605,855 
you're too cute!! 
You're the one bright spot in the California crisis!  I hate to even tell you, but I talked to Skilling this morning (cover shoot for Biz 2.0) and he watched the pie-throwing tv coverage and commented about your great shot! It's a classic expression, and if everyone didn't love you dearly, we wouldn't be having as much fun w/ it.  Did you ever watch?  :-) kd 
Much Calif Power Price Gouging Beyond FERC's Reach -ISO By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 06/25/2001 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) LOS ANGELES -(Dow Jones)- Federal energy regulators only have the authority to order refunds for about a third of the $9 billion California Gov. Gray Davis claims energy companies have overcharged the state in the 12 months to May 2001, documents from the state's wholesale market operator show. Of the total, $2.9 billion came from the May-September period the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has said it can't act on, and $2.8 billion from the October-May period is attributable to municipal utilities over which FERC lacks jurisdiction, according to documents from the California Independent System Operator. That leaves just $3.3 billion in alleged overcharges that FERC could potentially order refunded - far less than the $9 billion Davis seeks. Talks between generators and state officials to settle billions of dollars in unpaid bills and issues of overcharging began Monday. Curtis Wagner, the FERC administrative law judge presiding over the talks, has said California will likely see refunds from generators, but far less than the $9 billion Davis expects. Davis said Sunday California is going to Washington, D.C., ""with one goal, 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
Is our white paper on the web somewhere? 
USA: UPDATE 1-PG&E utility gives Calpine debt priority status. 07/06/2001 Reuters English News Service (C) Reuters Limited 2001. (changes 1st paragraph, adds details, company statement) SAN JOSE, Calif., July 6 (Reuters) - Independent power generator Calpine Corp. said on Friday that its contracts with Pacific Gas and Electric Co. will be altered, ensuring that Calpine will continue to supply power to the bankrupt California utility and that it will get paid more than $250 million for power already sold. Calpine stocks rose more than 14 percent, or more than $5, to $43 after the announcement. As part of the contract modification, the $267 million, with interest, that the utility, a unit of PG&E Corp , owes Calpine in past due receivables under the contracts, will be elevated to ""administrative priority status,"" a claim which is paid before any other general unsecured creditors. Calpine will get the money, in a lump sum, as soon as PG&E has a confirmed reorganization plan, which can take as long as four to six months from now, Calpine said. The move is also a step in the process of untangling California's energy crisis, which stemmed from a flawed deregulation plan that has hit the state with a series of rolling blackouts. Under the agreement, Calpine will continue to receive its contractual capacity payments, but it has also set up a fixed rate contract for the next five years of about 5.37 cents per kilowatt-hour. The contracts are known as qualifying facility contracts because Calpine's power plants are qualifying facilities. These types of facilities represent more than 20 percent of the state's power supply and sell power generated from renewable energy sources to the regulated utilities. ""Calpine is the first power company to modify its QF contract with PG&E to ensure that Northern California consumers will continue to benefit from these affordable and reliable energy resources,"" Calpine senior vice president James Macias said in a statement. 
California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
I got a call from Dow Jones today about a price we had posted on EnronOnline for day-ahead power at Mead for $105/MWh (the FERC proxy price is $91.87).  I talked to Tim Belden and just because an offer is posted doesn't mean that there's been a transaction.  Turns out that under our interpretation of the FERC order, because Friday for Monday transactions exceed the 24-hour delivery requirement, we believe they're exempt from the order.  Tim said that at the end of today, we had done five transactions above the cap, but they decided to lower the transaction price to the proxy price so we'd reduce 
We're still getting traction from Skilling's remarks last week! State energy crisis may imperil future of deregulation, consumer choice By DON THOMPSON Associated Press Writer 06/27/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. SACRAMENTO (AP) - California's energy crisis may claim a substantial victim: deregulation itself. ""Never again will we embrace a free market - it's too expensive,"" Gov. Gray Davis' chief energy adviser, S. David Freeman, predicted Wednesday. ""The marketplace is blind to the need for cleaner air, it is blind to the needs of consumers in a shortage, and it produces a shortage with its volatility,"" the former head of the Los Angeles and Sacramento municipal power agencies told a Senate committee plotting California's energy future. The state's flawed 1996 law freed wholesale electricity rates while capping retail power prices, leaving the state's three investor-owned utilities trapped in between. Now the state has signed $43 billion worth of long-term energy contracts, and created a power authority that could build its own power plants. Its Public Utilities Commission stands ready to bar businesses from freely swapping power providers - the incentive that prompted deregulation in the first place. Davis wants lawmakers to approve buying the electricity transmission lines from two of the three cash-strapped utilities, and wants to buy the lines of the state's largest utility, Pacific Gas and Electric, out of bankruptcy court. Consumer groups say the state should buy the utilities' hydroelectric generation and other assets as well, as part of a return to regulation and a shift to publicly owned power supplies. ""Look what deregulation and handing our electricity supply over to a bunch of private companies has done for us - 50 percent (rate) increases and $20 billion in surcharges. Thank you very much, but no thank you,"" Harvey Rosenfield of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights said last week. He argued the state should buy all three utilities at their current ""fire-sale prices"" - ""We're talking about picking them up for a 
I took a call from a reporter this morning about pricing info for May 9 (the reporter wants to make the point that the state overpaid for its contracts). I got the following info from Bob Badeer: May 9 -- prices at SP15 (location north of LA-south, but excluding LA) for July forward -- flat price, 7/24 5-year: $75/MWh 10-year: $63 today (6/28): 5-year: $42 
fyi, info from Duke responding to charges made by ex-employees... 
Gary, I just sent this to your other e-mail address.  The Lt Gov. was in on this San Diego employee thing at the Dunn hearings, so this may come up. The credibility of these former SDG&E employees was very weak in the hearing and their allegations are absurd..... ________________________________________________________________________ To California news media covering electricity crisis: As a result of the false claims by three former San Diego Gas & Electric employees we have been in the news a bit lately. To add a bit of clarity to the situation I am sending you our release issued Friday that goes through each of the three claims and our response. To more fully understand the situation, please read the attached story that appeared in the LA Times yesterday. These reporters had the logs that were stolen from our South Bay Power Plant in Chula Vista more than two weeks ago.  We went through these log books line by line with these reporters. They also obtained confidential information from the Cal-ISO during these three days (January 16-18) that indicated that we were operating at their instruction when ramping up an down the units.  This is because the ISO purchased the ability to move the units up and down to help ensure the state's supply and demand is in balance.  This is a common practice and done every hour of every day by the ISO at plants that are able to provide this service. Its unfortunate that we were not allowed to respond to these charges when they were made formally in Senator Dunn's  committee hearing Friday (although the information was leaked way before the hearing by someone).  I understand that Governor Gray Davis is meeting with these former SDG&E employees tomorrow.  We had tried to personally meet with the governor last summer to offer very inexpensive long term power contracts and 2000 megawatts of peaking plants in 2001 and 2002 and were not able to. Tom Williams Director of Public Affairs Duke Energy North America Morro Bay, CA ______________________________________________________________________________ _____ Los Angeles Times via Dow Jones 
debate between me and Bustamonte This Thursday I will be a guest along with our favorite Lt Gov on California Capital Week.  I can't think of a worse time to have this, since Bustamonte is the point man on fhe three witnesses that participated in last Friday's public Senate Hearing on price manipulation.  So feed me your advice.  I am trying to take the high road, but I will warn you right now that if Bustamonte makes any of his outrageous statements in front of me, I will boldly correct him in no short order. gba 
FYI... see you on Thursday! 
thanks! 
fyi re: state contracts.. 
Firms want off grid Companies wish to deal directly with utilities and avoid helping state foot the bill. June 15, 2001 By KATE BERRY The Orange County Register California's business community is locked in a battle with energy regulators and lawmakers about how deregulation will ultimately pan out - and whether companies will be stuck paying most of the tab for the state's electricity crisis. Business groups want to continue down the road toward deregulation. They are lobbying politicians to pass legislation that would let companies buy electricity directly from power suppliers, bypassing the state's regulated utilities. ""In our hearts, we still believe we can make this a competitive market and get some cost savings,'' said Bill Dombrowski, president of the California Retailers Association, which represents 9,000 stores in the state, including Home Depot, Target and Albertson's. But Gov. Gray Davis' foray into long-term contracts, agreeing to pay $43 billion over 10 to 20 years for power, could squash that ambition. The state's Public Utilities Commission delayed a proposal June 7 to restrict companies from signing so-called ""direct access"" contracts with power providers. Regulators are expected to rule on the proposal next week. The debate over direct access is at the heart of a complicated attempt to solve California's costly power crisis. It will determine whether businesses, with residential customers, pay for the bulk of the state's future energy purchases. It also could determine whether Southern California Edison, the state's cash-strapped No. 2 utility, will avoid bankruptcy - and whether deregulation will survive in any form. ""The governor got it exactly wrong,'' said Peter Navarro, an economics professor at the University of California, Irvine, who is running for the San Diego City Council. ""The long-term contract strategy is a de facto re-regulation of the market because it eliminates the ability of industrial customers to bargain for a lower price.'' Direct access was a key component of the 1996 deregulation law, designed to break the monopoly of California's utilities. Under this concept, all customers could directly access an energy provider other than their regulated utility - just as they pick a long-distance phone company. Currently, 11,000 businesses and government entities have direct access, as well as about 77,000 residential customers - but some energy service providers, such as Enron Corp., are dropping their residential customers. Direct access is at the center of the latest Edison bailout plan, sponsored by Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley, D-Boulder Creek. Under the plan, the 3,600 largest businesses would agree to pay $3.1 billion of Edison's debts over 15 years. In exchange, businesses would be allowed to secure their own power contracts by 2003. But energy regulators may not let companies off the hook at such a bargain price. David Gamson, an energy adviser to PUC Commissioner Geoffrey F. Brown, said regulators are concerned that if businesses flee the system, the state will be stuck with too much electricity under long-term electricity contracts through 2021. That would mean residential ratepayers would be stuck paying the bulk of the $43 billion in future power costs. Complicating the issue is Wall Street. The state's bankers, led by J.P. Morgan, are nervous about selling as much as $13.4 billion in planned state bonds if businesses - now the largest ratepayers in the state after governments - find a way out of the system. The bonds are meant to repay the state for $8.2 billion in power-buying costs so far this year and to cover some future costs. Business and residential electricity customers would repay the bonds through a surcharge on their utility bills. If businesses are allowed to sign on with outside energy providers, that revenue stream would be in jeopardy. ""We have companies now that want to get below-cost power from the state, but when the market turns, they want to leave,'' said Lawrence Lingbloom, chief policy adviser on energy to Sen. Debra Bowen, D-Marina del Rey. ""Remaining customers would be left with those costs, and it would create a death spiral for the revenue stream.'' Consumer groups oppose direct access because it would allow businesses to avoid paying most of the costs of the energy crisis. ""Direct access is a policy that should be dead because it's a key adjunct to deregulation,'' said Doug Heller of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights in Santa Monica. ""But right now, it's a policy that's driving all the deals.'' Even as regulators and consumer groups try to snuff out direct access, business groups are lobbying to save it - with the help of key legislators. Two bills, one sponsored by Bowen, who heads the Senate energy committee, and a second by Assemblyman Dave Kelley, R-Hemet, would rescind language in previous legislation that gave the Public Utilities Commission authority to block direct access. Both proposals would require businesses to pay the state an ""exit fee.'' Those fees haven't yet been determined, but they would include a surcharge or a complicated calculation in which businesses would pay a percentage of future energy purchases. Companies say they don't want to pay. ""Direct access has allowed businesses to enter fixed- price contracts to get stable rates,'' said Shawn Covell, senior manager for governmental affairs at Qualcomm Inc. in San Diego. ""It's really unfair when you have businesses that have taken their time to protect themselves, to punish them.'' Qualcomm, which makes telecommunications equipment, saw its energy bills double to $6 million last year. The company signed a contract with an energy service provider, Strategic Energy in Carlsbad, and capped its rates. Otherwise, Covell said, its electricity costs would have doubled again this year. Sweetwater Union High School District in Chula Vista is a direct-access customer. The district, with 35,000 students, spends about $2 million a year on energy, said Jim Clark, its energy manager. His district won a ""watchdog award'' for efficiency from the San Diego County Taxpayers' Association because it locked in lower rates. When Gov. Gray Davis announced in January that the state would begin signing long-term contracts, Clark extended the district's contract through 2006 at 11 cents per kilowatt-hour - enabling it to save $1 million a year, he said. ""As soon as Davis made the announcement, we knew the market was going to move,'' he said. ""The market only changes when people buy. When the state of California steps to the plate, the price goes to the moon.'' Davis has maintained that the long-term contracts between the state and power suppliers helped bring down high spot market prices in recent weeks by removing demand from that market. But Clark and others who want to go the direct-access route fear the government will force businesses to pay for all the costs of the energy crisis, including rate increases of 38 percent to 49 percent, plus surcharges to pay off $13.4 billion in forthcoming state bonds. ""Businesses will be required to pay for the mistakes that the governor and the Legislature have made,'' he said. ""Who else is going to pay for it? Ultimately, it will fall on the heads of all consumers.'' Register staff writer Hanh Kim Quach contributed to this report. 
Jeff just called and asked us to prepare the following charts for his presentation at the Commonwealth Club: 1 -- forward price of power in California (today, tomorrow, next day, 5 years, 10 years, 20 years) conceptual charts of Economics 101: 2  -- example of a supply/demand curve 3  -- supply/demand curve for short-term power 4  -- supply/demand curve for long-term power 5 -- 3-4 quotes from testimony in '95/'96 where Enron made the arguments that there would be no forward market, structure was silly 6 -- chart with the estimate for the number of states or utilities and what percentage of power-buying is long-term versus short-term.  Jeff wants to show that all other states and utilities have a minimal percentage of power 
Do we have any contact w/ the Coalition for Energy Action -- the new business group led by the California Chamber?  We need to be part of that group to at least know what they're doing and what messages they're spinning.  Let me 
Access and asks for CPUC Support 
FYI, JDS Uniphase Corporation was one of the 150 California companies that received our direct access letter.  Please see the attached letter that they sent to the CPUC commissioners. 
Calif Fails To Find Illegal Acts By Generators -Sources By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 06/12/2001 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) (This article was originally published Monday.) LOS ANGELES -(Dow Jones)- An investigation by California's attorney general and state utility regulators into alleged illegal behavior by electricity generators has failed to turn up evidence of criminal activity, persons familiar with the probe said Monday. The sources - including two commissioners on the California Public Utilities Commission and an aide to Attorney General Bill Lockyer - said generators aren't likely to be prosecuted, even though it appears they did withhold supply, and that the state may pursue civil remedies as an alternative. 
In advance of the CPUC's meeting June 19 when they will consider suspending direct access, we would like to send a letter from Ken Lay to the top businesses, CEOs and members of the Coalition for Energy Action urging them to weigh-in with the PUC.  AReM has already issued a media advisory alerting the press to the PUC meeting.  Please review the attached letter, and let me know if you have any comments or changes as soon as possible.  If we send something out, it will need to go out first thing Monday morning. Thank you. kd 
FYI, Sue will receive a special award from the Western Power Trading Forum at their meeting in Ojai, Calif. on June 21.  Scroll to the bottom of this email to read why they selected her! Way to go, Sue!!! 
Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Sue....this is exceptionally well-deserved, for all you do for the causes which Kent, and all of us, hold dear.  Congratulations!! Dan ----- Message from ""Gary Ackerman"" <foothill@lmi.net> on Tue, 24 Apr 2001 13:19:35 -0400 ----- 
Sue Mara of Enron has been named the first recipient of the Kent Wheatland Memorial Award.  Sue was selected in consultation with many of WPTF's Board members because of her tenacity, forth-rightness, and courage.  She will be bestowed the honor on the evening of June 21 at our General Meeting in Ojai, and presenting the award to Sue will be Kent's brother, Gregg. Please join me in congratulating Sue on her selection.  You will note that she is not copied on this memo, but I called her this morning to tell her the news.  She was shocked, and honored, and almost, but not quite speechless. gba 
Jeff -- Here's the info for Monday: Marathon Communications Inc. 8436 West Third Street, suite 700 Los Angeles 90048 323-655-4660 We'll be meeting with Joan Kradin (svp) and Rich Lichtenstein (president) at 11 a.m.  I've told them we'll spend a couple of hours going over our issues and concerns with California (regulatory, commercial, legal, public perception, etc...) as well as our current activities (ENA, EES, etc.) and what we'd like to do going forward.   They'll then put together a plan and we can get them on retainer by Nov. 1. What other agencies do we have on retainer? (McNally Temple, the guy who did the focus groups, etc.)  Do you know what their monthly retainer is?  I'd like to get a sense of what we're already spending. Looking forward to seeing you Monday.  Have a great weekend! 
You're certainly becoming a regular on the energy speaker's circuit!  How'd your event last Thursday go?  I'm sure you charmed their regulatory panels... 
I just approved you as a reviewer for Jeannie Mandelker and now I'm curious... what's your middle name, Jeffrey O? 
Is there any way you can do a conference call at 1:30?  We can talk about FERC issues after Sandi signs off. 
The last FERC panel sounds like it had quite a few testy exchanges.... Calif Officials Tell FERC To Face 'Political Reality' 11/09/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Bryan Lee OF DOW JONES NEWSWIRES WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--The political uproar generated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's decision that it had no legal authority to order refunds in California's high-flying power market washed up on the agency's doorstep Thursday. California's governor and other government leaders banded together to criticize FERC at a public meeting Thursday, one week after FERC issued an order proposing market reforms for California. California Gov. Gray Davis delivered a stinging rebuke of the commission via videotape, as state legislators testified that FERC must act quickly or the state's voters may take things into their own hands with a ballot initiative. Davis summed up the discontent by noting that FERC had concluded that prices in California's first-in-the-nation deregulated electricity market were neither just nor reasonable, but ""you are not willing to do anything about 
great Herbert quote on the issue of refunds... FERC GOP Commissioner To Skip San Diego Hearings Tue By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 11/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Explaining that the California electricity crisis has become ""a political nightmare,"" the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's lone Republican Party commissioner has decided not to attend hearings in San Diego on Tuesday. ""I don't expect you will see anything happen tomorrow,"" the commissioner, Curt Hebert, said. ""California would rather fight this out for the next five to ten years rather than take steps now to solve the problem,"" said Hebert. Hebert, who is in San Diego this week attending a conference of energy regulators, said that he had requested the hearings be held on a different day due to a conflict in his schedule. But another reason Hebert won't attend Tuesday's hearings, he said, is because California Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, skipped FERC hearings in Washington last week. The governor sent a videotaped message to be played at the hearings, and in it he severely criticized FERC's proposed solutions to California's problems as totally inadequate. Davis explained to the FERC that he couldn't go to Washington Thursday because Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, was visiting California. Hebert said that California lawmakers aren't focusing on solving the state's electricity crisis, but rather are simply using it for political gain. ""What's going to kill California's electricity market in the end is all the politicizing,"" he said. Hebert expects to see more companies withdraw projects for building new power plants in the state, as Enron Corp (ENE) and Calpine Corp (CPN) did two weeks ago. As a result, Hebert expects blackouts in the state next summer, as well as continued high prices in the wholesale power market. Although he formally concurred with FERC's proposed order on ways to repairs the state's power market, he said that it should go further in ending price caps in California's power market. Unless California addresses the issue of 
fyi... 
- SignOn San Diego Metro -- FERC fails duty, Peace says.htm 
Here's the letter to the CPUC.... 
FYI... 
Reliant has recently joined the California Taxpayers Association and I attended their Board meeting last week.  I recommend that all CA generators and market participants join the group.  It is likely that there will be tax legislation impacting our industry; it would be to our advantage to have an active, well-respected group on our side during any legislative battles.  When there was a threat of a windfall profits tax on  the gasoline companies earlier this year, Cal-Tax responded quickly and helped stop the effort. As the legislative rhetoric heats up we need to start thinking about becoming more proactive.  This membership is one way of getting help on tax issues.  I encourage others to suggest other proactive steps we might take individually or as a group.  And while I'm at it ---  I also recommend membership in Cal. Manufacturers Assoc. The Cal-Tax membership is very reasonable, $10,000 for a Board position and 5,000 for corporate non-Board level.  The group has very good information and email services which your tax people would appreciate.  For information on membership, pls call Joyce Showalter, 530/335-4032.  Currently Duke and Reliant are board members; I'm not sure if any others are members.  Pls call if you have questions. 
YIPPEEE!!! 
Karen: Our friends in the Speaker's office have requested for a copy of the Steve Peace tape.  Mr. Peace's office is supposed to send a copy to the Speaker's office next week.  We will Fed-Ex a copy to you as soon as we receive it. Happy Thanksgiving. Sandra 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
I'm slow in going through email... here's an update 
J -- I just talked to our team at Marathon and they're really jazzed about next Tuesday's meeting.  They're really looking to identify ways that they can add to our strategy -- politically and publicly -- so they'll likely come up with a plan with some recommendations after the meeting. One thing we were supposed to send to them (which I forgot) was the Luntz survey.  I don't think I ever saw it.  Do you have a copy?  Could you forward to me and I'll send on? Thanks -- you're the best! 
fyi 
- SignOn San Diego Business -- Suits charge electricity price gouging.htm 
The following is a statement for use in response to the lawsuit filed in San Diego today: ""This is a publicity stunt.  Three separate federal and state regulatory agencies have investigated the allegations rehashed in this lawsuit and found that no market power was exercised in California.  This lawsuit is completely without merit and is yet another attempt to fix blame rather than fix the problem in California. California needs a strong forward market so utilities can hedge out the volatility in the spot power market and California needs incentives for 
FYI... 
Last night, Debra Bowen held a community meeting to discuss electricity deregulation.  Carl Wood, Art Rosenfeld, Henry Martinez and Don Cunningham of DWP, and Gary Shurman (sp?) of SCE were speakers. All speakers emphasized the importance of demand side management.  There was little discussion anything else. Mr. Wood stated that deregulation was fatally flawed, that the wholesale market had failed and that generators had figured out how to game the market. Bowen indicated that one element of the Governor's plan will focus on energy conservation.  She reviewed specifics of AB 970. The SCE representative said that the state needed to regain oversight control of the market.  He stated that the market was dysfunctional and that market manipulation has caused extreme prices.  He also stated that it was unlikely that the state would prevail in receiving refunds from generators. Commissioner Wood agreed saying that generators made incredible profits and siphoned them out of California.  Regarding the uncollected debt, Wood said that the debt belongs to Edison but that the PUC cannot allow the utility companies to go bankrupt. Wood said that Edison and ratepayers would probably repay debt.  He indicated that the State may be able to recover some of the profit from marketers and generators but that this may not be able to be achieved through the courts. SCE representative stated that it is easier to talk about price gouging than it is to put together a lawsuit.  He reminded the audience that generators are all out of state and that it has been difficult to obtain information from generators. Bowen said that it was important to remember that it was not just the generators but also brokers that overcharged for electricity. When asked about how California got into this situation, who was to blame, and what could be done to punish generators, Bowen responded that she would rather focus on things that can be done in the short term to prepare residents for higher electricity costs. 
fyi 
- Mercury Center Special Report.htm 
Is it 11 a.m. PST or central?  I've got a conflict around 11 a.m. Houston time.  If it's 11 a.m. PST, I can do it.  Let me know.  thx. kd Susan J Mara 12/07/2000 08:00 AM 
I'll be in the air.  Can one of you call in? 
Greetings: My apologies for the delay in sending out this message. We will be holding a PR call tomorrow at 11:00 a.m. to discuss this week's session as well as ongoing PR efforts responsive to recent announcements and what we are doing to move forward. Agenda Includes: o McNally/Temple Update/Upcoming issues o Edson/Modisette Update/upcoming issues o Upcoming Meetings o Coalition Building The call in number is 888-232-0365 Pass code:   111756 Let me know if you want to add anything to the rough agenda. Thanks! Katie Kaplan Manager of State Policy Affairs Independent Energy Producers Association (916) 448-9499 
--even in Decem 
fyi... 
--even in Decem - Overload-Why the state can't keep up with the demand for energy --even in December.htm 
I did some checking, and we ARE able to send phonemail messages to multiple locations.  When you are prompted to enter the extensions, use the following codes: San Francisco: 415+XXXX (last four digits of the number) Portland: 28+XXXXX (last five digits of the number) Houston: 853+XXXX (last four digits of the number) If you have problems, let me know. 
pls review.  i've asked them to provide cost estimates and a list of the 25-50 key tech leaders.  will let you know what i hear back.  bullets are coming... 
Karen: Please review the attached memo and let us know how you would like to proceed. Thanks. Sandra - Near-term, 2000-2001.doc 
Working with Marathon to develop a PR strategy for December and 1Q01.  Will circulate the plan early this week for comments and buy-in. Jeff -- just a note... the energy situation in CA has already escalated into a crisis and is on the front-burner of elected officials, the media, business and the public (so if one of our goals was to create a sense of crisis, it's been taken care of).  We need to take advantage of this heightened awareness with an educational campaign.  It's an opportune time to communicate our messages. Let me know what else you need. Thanks! 
fyi, i returned the call. 
J -- do you have Frank's phone number? any info about the focus group video? Let me know so I can pass along to Marathon.  Thanks! kd 
Karen Rich spoke with Frank regarding focus group video and polling results. Frank said that he would be happy to release poll results if he gets approval from someone at Enron.  Can you facilitate this? Also, Frank said that he does not have a copy of the focus group video.  Can you obtain a copy for Rich? Thanks. Sandra 
fyi... 
For what its worth, I forgot to include the latest rumor, picked up yesterday: As a result of Julian Dixon's death, there's a free-for-all underway on who's going to run for his Congressional seat.  Rod Wright is definitely considering it, and has begun making phone calls to test the waters/gather support. - winmail.dat 
I'm checking w/ EES to see if they have any generic brochures, etc. on energy conservation or a glossary of terms. 
Attached is the PR plan prepared by Marathon for December and 1Q01.   I've also attached the draft CEO email specified in the plan and the target list of key industrial and technology leaders in California.   Please review the plan and preliminary messages.  Keep in mind that as the holidays are approaching rapidly, we need to move quickly to begin implementing the PR plan.  Please let me know by Friday, Dec. 15 if you have any comments, concerns or suggestions. Thank you. Karen 
Enron: ISO Credit Problems Are Those Of Calif Utilities Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 12/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Mark Golden NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The credit problems of the California Independent System Operator reflect the credit problems of the state's three investor-owned utilities, Enron Corp. (ENE) chief of staff Steven Kean said Wednesday. ""We have expressed some concerns about the utilities' creditworthiness,"" Kean said. ""They wouldn't have this credit issue if they had a government 
fyi... 
I helped make this more agressive.  The first draft I saw just said take note that the CPUC is considering doing this. We know that Kate Berry of OCo Register is doing a story. She called Jeff on it. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
fyi... 
I helped make this more agressive.  The first draft I saw just said take note that the CPUC is considering doing this. We know that Kate Berry of OCo Register is doing a story. She called Jeff on it. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
what do you think about this idea? 
fyi... 
I helped make this more agressive.  The first draft I saw just said take note that the CPUC is considering doing this. We know that Kate Berry of OCo Register is doing a story. She called Jeff on it. Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Hey there, two things... 1 -- how are negotiations coming?  can i uncross my fingers and toes yet? 2 -- i fed-exed the Frontline and Nightline pieces to Sue yesterday, so you should have them in your office today.  Should I send popcorn? Talk soon. 
Jeff -- Thanks for responding to Brulte's request.  I sure hope you can pull 
I didn't talk to Jason on this one.  I'll check w/ Mark, but I doubt he would know what we gave to Hertzberg and the chamber.  It's odd that Jason said Enron ""executive"" since if he talks to me or Mark, he uses ""spokesman"" or uses our names... I think Davis's new hit men are really trying to paint us 
fyi... 
The lead Senator for the California Senate Select Committee of Manipulation of Electricity in the Wholesale Market invited me to a Univ of California - Irvine CEO Executive Roundtable retreat at the Ojai Valley Inn on June 9 (Saturday).? It's just me, Sentaor Dunn, and Anjali Sheffrin of the ISO on the panel.? The audience is 144 CEOs from businesses located in the Irvine, and the south Orange County area. If you have any special bullet items you want to send me in preparation for this, then do so.? Don't send me things you think I already have from you (e.g, info in preparation for the Kathleen Connell Conttroller's Quarterly article).? This crowd should be more business friendly than, say, Women of LA. gba ? ? 
I think we can give Gary some message points, agree?  What topics do we want him to hit -- stop the rhetoric, implement a comprehensive solution (which includes more than just rate increases), etc, etc... 
I will be in Warren Olney's To the Point national radio show today with Frank Wallach, Maviglio, etc. to discuss Bush's visit to California, and energy policy. Feed me. gba 
> we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the > letter that was sent out Friday... 
> > Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we > receive the first customer call. > I will keep you all in the loop. > Thanks! > Peggy 
> > > Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within > the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second > paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, > final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers > will receive in the mail.  Thank you. > > (See attached file: Calif_Residential_0524_6PM.doc) > > > 
we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the letter that was sent out Friday... 
Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we receive the first customer call. I will keep you all in the loop. Thanks! Peggy 
Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers will receive in the mail.  Thank you. 
Attached is the latest Q&A on the residential turnback.  There are still questions to be answered (and if you have additional ones, pls send to me/Peggy asap), and we'll route an updated version. 
Latest versions of Q&A documents.  I am in the process of reviewing.  Plez let me know if you have any thoughts. Peggy 
Here is the latest version of the Q&A. There are two separate documents: one for the customer service representatives and one for the press.  These documents have been reviewed and approved by Vicki, outside council, and others.  I have sent the customer representative Q&A under separate cover to Diann Huddleson and Kevin Keeney, so there is no confusion with the media Q&A. 
news from the day 
run with this one!  I really hope you're successful.  If this one doesn't work, I don't even want to think where we'll be.  I've got fingers, toes, 
I just got a call from Sandra Yamane at Marathon -- she just talked to their client who was at the CEO meeting w/ Bush, Davis and Riordan.  Each participant had two minutes to speak -- all focused on technology and energy efficiency.  The media was allowed to come into the meeting at the end. Craig Barrett emerged as the spokesman and he said the group unanimously was opposed to price caps.  Davis said very little, and Riordan said nothing. 
I'm attaching the letter we drafted for the CEOs to send to Davis and the top six legislators: Jennifer Thome 05/29/2001 03:54 PM 
Rick: I have attached the first ""Solutions Document"" we developed several weeks ago in advance of a trip Ken was making to CA. Below is a message with links to the more recent documents Ken used. Please let me know if you have any questions. Jennifer 
On the call on Friday, Linda asked if we could distribute materials developed/used recently in California regarding the crisis and solutions to try to resolve it.  Attached are: A ""backgrounder"" provided to the business leaders that Ken Lay met with last week A power point presentation that is a ""higher level"" discussion of the more 
MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
You're too kind -- and you're always a pick-me-up -- thanks!  Glad you're back.  missed you last week (even tho you called in!) 
MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
That's what I told AP, but after I looked like a major doofus on the front page of the Chronicle... The last few weeks have not been pretty for PR... How was your vacation? 
Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
FYI, the only people who knew who we invited to the meeting (but did not attend) were Dick Riordan and Kevin Sharer... Saturday, May 26, 2001 (SF Chronicle) Enron's secret bid to save deregulation/PRIVATE MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians Christian Berthelsen, Scott Winokur, Chronicle Staff Writers Energy executive Kenneth Lay, head of powerful Enron Corp., quietly courted Arnold Schwarzenegger, Richard Riordan, Michael Milken and other luminaries this week in Beverly Hills to drum up support for his solution to California's energy crisis. His prescription called for more rate increases, an end to state and federal investigations and less rather than more regulation. Lay, a close friend of President Bush and one of his largest campaign contributors, hosted a private 90-minute meeting in a conference room at the Peninsula Hotel in Beverly Hills on Thursday. Among the participants were Milken, the former head of the Drexel Burnham Lambert investment banking firm who pleaded guilty to fraud charges in 1990 and who now runs a think tank based in Santa Monica; movie star Schwarzenegger; and Riordan, the mayor of Los Angeles. Schwarzenegger and Riordan have been courted recently as GOP gubernatorial candidates. One participant, who agreed to speak on the condition he not be identified, said the meeting appeared to be geared toward getting participants to support Lay's vision and then champion it to officials who are trying to solve the state's energy mess. PLAN TO RESCUE DEREGULATION The source said the timing and tone of the meeting suggested Lay is concerned that California will abandon its disastrous experiment with power markets by either re-regulating the system or creating a government authority to provide electricity. Gov. Gray Davis signed legislation last week to create and fund a state power authority that would build, buy and run power plants in California. ""They're trying to rescue deregulation,"" the source said of Enron 
fyi, of the 12 participants, we've briefed reps from three of the companies (Exodus, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Wal-Mart), plus Dick Riordan.... 
fyi... 
Also, the board of directors list isn't attached... i'd like to forward to jeff. thx Sandra Yamane <SYamane@marathon-com.com> on 05/09/2001 11:03:18 AM 
Sandra -- yes, Jeff will participate.  Please let me know what we need to prepare on this end.  Thanks! kd 
At least one CEO has sent the letter... 
Info on the chamber speaking engagement... 
Sandra -- Any other info Jeff Dasovich needs for Tuesday's chamber meeting? Also, any further word on attendees for Tuesday's meeting w/ the prez? Thanks! kd 
in depths of 
fyi... 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
Thank you, Joseph!! Joseph Alamo 05/22/2001 01:43 PM 
Steve Kirshch CEO Propel 1010 Rincon Circle San Jose CA 95131 ph.  408.571.6317 fax: 408.577.1070 e-mail:  stk@propel.com Vivek Ranadive CEO Tibco ph. 650.846.5001 e-mail: ranadive@tibco.com Kenneth Oshman President & CEO Echelon 415 Oakmead Parkway Sunnyvale CA 94085 ph. 408.938.5244 fax 408.328.3805 e-mail: keno@echelon.com John Doerr ph. 650.233.3353 e-mail: jdoerr@kpcb.com 
Jeff -- Thanks for your phone message.  I'm stuck and need your help.  My Microsoft Word isn't working, and I want to send something out to the ceos asap tuesday.  Can you clean up the letter?  I'm fine w/ your edits (for the signature line, add ""name, title"")  Pls send me the final letter so I can detach.  i've left a message for steve and will wait to send until i hear from him. I'm didn't collect biz cards from everyone at the CEO meetings, and I need email and/or fax numbers for: Tony Ridder Steve Kirsch Ken Oshman Fred Anderson Dan Scheinman Vivek Ranadive John Doerr Ray Irani Can you send me the info from their cards?  Call me if you have any questions.  THANK YOU!!! 
fyi... 
Phil Angelides addressed Town Hall Los Angeles last week about the energy crisis.  Angelides was the first speaker in Town Hall's energy series. Upcoming speakers include John Bryson, Steve Letbetter, Loretta Lynch, and Ken Lay. Angelides made the following comments regarding the energy crisis: 1.  A sharp downturn in California will send the national economy into a slide 2.  California deregulation is a virus that will kill deregulation nationally. 3.  The power shortage is a problem of our own making. 4.  Californians must conserve power in record-setting levels. 5.  The Governor and Legislator must level with citizens about the energy crisis 6.  Utility rates must penalize consumption 7.  Californians must unite to reign in generators 8.  The Federal government should impose wholesale price caps 9.  If FERC will not fulfill its obligation to set fair and reasonable prices, or the price of electricity increases 50% more, Californians must fend for themselves, possibly through the formation of a buyers cartel with Oregon and Wash. or by seizing power plants. 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Jeff -- I'm still in CA (and still recovering from last week...) hope you are, too.  I'm anxious to send the letter to the CEOs, since we promised them something on Friday.  Would you please follow up w/ Steve on Monday?  Call me 
you're now appearing on fliers!!!  What's next?  Movies?  A supporting role w/ Arnold??  :-) kd 
Here's the info I have from the biz cards I collected yesterday (Ahhhhnold didn't have one...) Pat -- Would you please add to my rolodex?  Also, if you have any phone messages this week from CEOs w/ assistant names and numbers, pls route to this distribution. thx. kd Sun Microsystems Piper Cole Vice President Global Public Policy 901 San Antonio Road, UPAL01-554 Palo Alto, CA 94303-4900 phone: 650-336-6633 fax: 650-336-0835 piper.cole@sun.com www.sun.com/policy Exocus Communications, Inc. Casey Beyer Director, Government and Industry Relations 2831 Mission College Boulevard Santa Clara, CA 95054 phone: 408-346-2474 cell: 408-464-8126 fax: 408-346-2420 casey.beyer@exodus.net Thomas E. Patterson Sidley Austin Brown & Wood 555 West Fifth Street Los Angeles, CA 90013 phone: 213-896-6037 fax: 213-896-6600 tpatterson@sidley.com Eric Moses Assistant Deputy  Mayor Office of the Mayor Los Angeles, CA 90012 phone: 213-847-3574 pager: 213-350-9416 fax: 213-485-1286 emoses@mayor.lacity.org Robert A. Day Chairman/CEO Trust Company of the West 865 South Figueroa Street Los Angeles, CA 90017 phone: 213-244-0004 fax: 213-244-0588 200 Park Avenue New York, New York 10166 phone: 212-771-4004 fax: 212-771-4001 Bruce Karatz Chairman & CEO KB Home 10990 Wilshire Blvd. Los Angeles, CA 90024 phone: 310-231-4000 fax: 310-231-4290 designated contact: Larry Gotlieb (political affairs) 310-231-4000 Robert V. Sinnott Managing Partner - Energy Investments Kayne Anderson 1800 Avenue of the Stars Second Floor Los Angeles, CA 90067 phone: 310-284-5508 fax: 310-284-6490 rsinnott@kayne.com Kenneth T. Lombard President Magic Johnson Theatres/Johnson Development Corporation 9100 Wilshire Boulevard, suite 710 East Beverly Hills, CA 90212 phone: 310-247-1994 fax: 310-247-0733 klombard@johnsondevelopmentcorp.com Kenneth T. Lombard President Los Angeles Board of Water and Power Commissioners Department of Water and Power City of Los Angeles 111 N. Hope Street, room 1555 Los Angeles, CA 90012 phone: 213-367-1356 Selim Zilkha 
Here's a first-crack at a letter for the CEOs to sign.  I couldn't open Microsoft Word, so I apologize it's in the body of this email.  Once we circulate a draft and get a version people are comfortable with, I'd recommend the following actions (but not by Enron): * send the letter to the governor and all members of the Legislature * run the letter as a full-page ad in key newspapers * advance the story to the media for earned coverage (possible editorial boards w/ several CEOs -- not Enron)  We could have an effort in both Northern and Southern California -- w/ different CEOs to emphasize the bipartisanship and diversity of support for the solution.  This media effort should target broadcast, as well. Edit away! ****************************************************************************** *************************************************** An open letter to Governor Davis and members of the Legislature: California's energy crisis has persisted and worsened over the past 12 months.  We have already experienced blackouts, and with summer fast approaching, unless something is done immediately, the worst is yet to come. The North American Electric Reliability Council released a report last week that said California is expected to experience more than 260 hours of blackouts this summer -- that's ten days without power.  California's economy cannot afford to grind to a halt because we have no power. Two of the state's largest companies have been thrown into financial turmoil.  Pacific Gas & Electric has already declared bankruptcy, and Southern California Edison is on the brink.  With California spending more than $____ a day on power and depleting cash reserves, the State's credit rating has been downgraded -- only Louisiana has a lower rating. While there has been much talk of potential solutions, none have advanced. There is too much at risk to delay another day.  Therefore, we, the undersigned, are proposing a comprehensive five-step solution to solve California's short- and long-term energy crisis that includes the following: 1.  Decrease demand -- There is no time to build power plants or get additional generation on-line in time for  this summer.  Therefore, the only option to reduce the impact of an electricity shortage this summer is to reduce  consumption.  This can be accomplished in several ways: Real-time pricing --  prices should reflect the cost of producing electricity, which varies throughout the   day.  When demand is at a peak, prices are high; when demand drops, so do prices.  This will give   customers a financial incentive to conserve and take simple actions, like turning the thermostat up two   degrees. Demand buy-down programs -- If a customer is willing to pay for kilowatts used, he/she ought to be   compensated for kilowatts saved. NEED TO SAY WHO WILL PAY FOR THIS 2. Increase supply -- The Governor has taken an important first step by using his executive powers to   streamline power plant siting.  While the state currently has approved 13 power plants totaling 8,512 megawatts,  it's not enough.  California ought to be the most attractive place to build power plants, transmission lines and  pipelines; instead, it's the least.  There is a backlog of turbines for power plant development, yet of the 1,000 backlogged, only 24 are earmarked for California because the state has sent an ""anywhere but here"" message  to investors.  The state's political leaders must reject action that discourages investment, including: * Legislation that would impose a ""windfall profits"" tax on power sold in California and make it a felony to   sell power at a price that the state finds unreasonable. * Continued calls for price caps in wholesale power market -- caps only create shortages and fail to   reduce  prices. * Investigations into allegations that suppliers manipulated power prices. 3. Make the utilities creditworthy -- Under California law, utilities are forced to charge frozen rates, but they  must buy power at higher wholesale prices.  The utilities' inability to recover their costs has forced PG&E into  bankruptcy and threatens Southern California Edison's solvency.  The solution to restoring the utilities'   creditworthiness is to set rates that cover the utilities' past debts and future costs -- and then give customers the  power to reduce their bills by conserving or by choosing a competitive energy supplier. 4. Get California out of the power-buying business -- Once rate increases return the utilities to   creditworthiness, the role of buying power can be returned to the utility very quickly -- within three to six months.   The state should not buy the transmission grid to raise additional cash for the utilities.  There are other ways to  raise funds: for example, a miniscule rate increase of two-tenths of one cent per kilowatt hour could accomplish the same thing -- and keep the power expertise in the hands of the utilities. 5. Get deregulation right in California -- California never deregulated.  In fact, today there is more   regulation than ever before.  For true deregulation to exist, every consumer and business in the state must have the right to hire and fire their energy service provider.  When California passed a law this year authorizing the  state to buy power, that same law (AB1X)  called for an end to customer choice (also called ""direct access."") California must rescind AB1X and reinstate the right of customers to choose their energy service provider.  ARE  WE INCLUDING CORE/NON-CORE? (i can't remember...) We urge the Legislature and Governor to enact legislation that includes these five components and sets California on the path to economic stability.  The longer the delay, the bigger the problem.  The time to act is now. CEO CEO 
Did you mean to send the power point? 
Why don't you take one last look at this -- it's the version I edited -- and I'll plan on faxing to the CEOs tomorrow. You da best!!! :-) kd 
FYI. 
Ladies and Gentlemen: For Immediate Release: The North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) released its 2001 Summer Assessment today.  ""The assessment concludes that California will experience difficulties meeting its projected electricity demand this summer,"" said Michehl R. Gent, NERC President and CEO, ""and California electricity users will experience rotating blackouts, much more so than last summer or this winter.""  The report also states that extreme drought conditions throughout the Pacific Northwest will affect the available output of hydroelectric resources.  ""We expect that utilities in the Pacific Northwest will be able to serve all of their firm demands this summer,"" he added, ""but they will not have electricity available to 
Karen, Here are two electronic maps of the campus.  One of them is a close-up of the campus itself.  The mansion is building 7.  The address is: 4070 George Sellon Circle Santa Clara, CA If you want me to walk you through it on the map, I'll be glad to.  The '7' is a bit difficult to see on the map if you're not looking for it.  Unfortunately, I don't have an electronic version of the close-up I faxed you -- it's off the brochure and makes for a clearer picture. Please let me know if there's anything else I can do for you. Einat _____________________________________________________________________ _______ /______/\  Einat Sandman /_____ \\ \  Public Policy Project Coordinator /______\ \\ /  Sun Microsystems, Inc. /______/ \/ / / 901 San Antonio Road MS PAL1-554 /______/ /   \//\ Palo Alto, CA 94303 \______\//\   / / Phone: 650/336-0593 FAX: 650/336-0835 \______/ / /\ / E-Mail: einat.sandman@corp.sun.com \______/ \\ \ \______\ \\ \______\/ - SantaClara1.pdf - sca_dirmap.pdf Importance: High X-Priority: 1 (High) Importance: High X-Priority: 1 (High) 
Piper -- Thanks so much for your assistance in pulling this meeting together.  Attached is a sample invitation we'll send from Ken Lay to the CEOs of the companies in the attached spreadsheet.  I appreciate your calls to the policy folks at these companies to supplement the email from Ken -- hopefully, we'll get a good turnout. Please let me know if you need additional information. Thank you! Karen 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 Any update on a meeting or conference call on Thursday? Piper 
Piper -- Ken Lay will be in town on Thursday morning, and we'd like to have a meeting.  Itt would be helpful to have a California CEO host the meeting and encourage other CEOs to attend.  Do you think Scott would reconsider?  In the event we find another venue, I'll be sure to pass along the information to you and Scott. Thanks so much for your help. Karen Piper Cole -- VP Global Public Policy <Piper.Cole@sun.com> on 05/14/2001 12:15:12 PM Please respond to Piper Cole -- VP Global Public Policy <Piper.Cole@sun.com> 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 Any update on a meeting or conference call on Thursday? Piper 
Crisis--Follow up from Meeting on 5.10.01 
Jeff -- This is AWESOME!!! Absolutely terrific job -- you outdid yourself this time -- congrats!!! 
you bet! 
Ken Smith mentioned that Dave Parquet sent out an email about this issue -- do either of you have a copy of it?  If so, please forward to me.  Thanks! kd 
I spoke with Elain Cory from San Francisco's NPR bureau, who  called Hedy Govenar's office earlier today regarding a story she's doing on  plant siting and air emission laws.? She's in Sacto today (currently  meeting with IEP), but I told her that our experts are in SF rather than  Sacramento.? I also told her I was checking with you to see if we could  offer someone (Dave Parquet seems the logical choice); if he (or someone else)  is available, she can meet with him on Monday.? ? Give me a call ASAP so I can follow up with her or so you can  take the appropriate steps.? I'll probably be on my cell -- (916)  947-0927. ? Thanks, Ken 
at least this is one thing to cross off your list.  For the Silicon Valley meeting, Steve suggested that we use Scott McNealy's contact.  I can coordinate -- let me know if I can take that off your plate, too. thx kd 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3560) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Jeff -- I've put together Ken's script for a phone call to Dick Riordan. Please review the following and let me know ASAP if you have any changes. Thanks! kd Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders.   As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article). This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Thanks -- you're the best!  I'll let you know as soon as I get additional info. kd 
Attached is a letter Marathon drafted to send to the top 100+ CA businesses in our database giving them info on our ""comprehensive solution.""  Rather than attach the solution document as is, I'd recommend a shorter, simplified version, plus an overview page that answers ""What does this do for: 
more info on who from LADWP will speak... 
Karen: I received a follow-up call today from the LA Chamber wanting to know if anyone from Enron would participate in their June 5 forum on energy crisis. There has been a change in the speaker from DWP. Instead of Frank Salas or David Wiggs, Enrique Martinez, Assistant Director, DWP will attend. Martinez acquires power on behalf of DWP. If you are able to identify a speaker, the Chamber would like a bio so they can provide their members with some background information on the speaker. Thanks Sandra 
I think this would be a good opportunity to have an Enron rep -- and I think you would be perfect.  Are you available June 5?  Let me know so Marathon can confirm.  THANK YOU!!! kd 
WAY TO GO!!!!  I'll let you know as soon as I hear back from Ken when he can do the LA/Sil Val CEO meetings.  Good seeing you last week.  Hope you had a good weekend!  Talk soon. kd 
Gas Pipeline to California 
fyi... 
just wanted to make sure you both had this... 
Favoring Caps 
Ken needs to be aware of this -- has he had any conversations w/ Bailey? 
Favoring Caps I got this from one of my Williams counterparts. Daniel Weintraub: An energy trader says it's time to limit profits (Published May 1, 2001) In a sea of angry finger-pointing, name-calling and ridicule, Keith Bailey stands out as an island of calm, a lonely voice of reason who understands that a company's long-term self-interest is about more than how much money it can make today. Most Californians probably have never heard of Bailey, a Kansas City native and chief executive officer of Tulsa-based Williams Cos. -- a private energy trader that has profited handsomely from the state's recent miseries. But Golden Staters from Gov. Gray Davis on down ought to embrace this Oklahoma resident. He might be the man who saves our future. Bailey is proposing that federal electricity regulators place temporary caps on the profits that he and his competitors may earn between now and fall 2002, when supply and demand will be closer to balance and sanity might return to the West's energy market. His rationale is this: To save California's private electricity market, new power plants are desperately needed. But not enough of those plants will be built if generators are not confident they will be paid for the product they already are providing. Californians, though, don't want to promise payment without knowing they will be able to afford the bill. Short-term caps on profits, Bailey believes, are the best way to ease the state's fears, get everybody paid and move on to a system that works -- for suppliers and customers. ""One of the things we are hoping to do with our proposal is create something that California can look at and say, 'So long as prices are determined on this basis, we're prepared to pay,' "" Bailey said in an interview. ""This is a mechanism that lets the state say, 'We're not signing a blank check. We don't know what the price is going to be, but we do know how it will be 
article w/ chart info 
Metro Desk Energy Cost Study Critical of Public Agencies Too Power: DWP is among three government-run producers cited as driving prices up. Spokesmen deny any market manipulation. ROBERT J. LOPEZ; RICH CONNELL TIMES STAFF WRITERS 04/11/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition A-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company Government-owned utilities, including the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, were influential in driving wholesale electricity prices to levels that helped ignite California's exploding energy crisis during the summer and fall, according to public and confidential records. For months, Gov. Gray Davis, legislators and consumer advocates have chiefly blamed a few private power companies for throwing the state into darkness and economic chaos. But they are just part of the equation. A confidential document obtained by The Times names power providers that have allegedly manipulated the electricity market. While the document does identify out-of-state merchants criticized for gouging, it also discloses for the first time the extent to which public entities allegedly have maximized profits in the volatile spot market. The document--which decodes the identities of unnamed suppliers in a recent state study--singles out three government-run agencies as consistently trying to inflate prices. They are: the DWP, the federally owned Bonneville Power Administration in the Pacific Northwest and the trading arm of Canada's BC Hydro in British Columbia. Like a number of privately owned generators, these three producers offered power at a range of high prices and, sometimes, in large amounts when the state was most desperate. They also helped saddle California's three largest utilities with billions of dollars in debt--leading one, Pacific Gas & Electric, to seek bankruptcy protection last week. The study by the California Independent System Operator, or Cal-ISO, analyzed thousands of hours of bidding practices for 20 large suppliers in the spot, or ""real-time,"" market from May to November. The study accounted for factors such as rising production costs, increased demand, periods of scarcity and profits that would be earned in a healthy, competitive market. Money earned above that was called excess profits. No entity--public or private--earned as much in alleged excess profits as British Columbia's Powerex, the state records show. ""They were the most aggressive bidders,"" said Anjali Sheffrin, author of the coded study. ""They had the most amount to bid and the most freedom to bid it in,"" said Sheffrin, who did not discuss any companies by name. The Canadian agency reaped $176 million in alleged excessive profits--several times the amount collected by all but one of the private generators. Second on the list was Atlanta-based Southern Co. Energy Marketing, now called Mirant, which collected nearly $97 million in alleged inflated earnings. BC Hydro and Mirant--along with the DWP and other producers--say they played by the rules established under California's flawed deregulation plan and did not exploit the state's troubles. But BC Hydro officials acknowledge that they did anticipate periods of severe power shortages and planned for them by letting their reservoirs rise overnight and then opening them to create hydroelectricity, which could be produced inexpensively but sold for a premium. ""It was the marketplace that determined what the price of electricity would be at any given time,"" said BC Hydro spokesman Wayne Cousins. ""We helped keep 
do you need help? 
Here you go!  Anything you think we need to add?  You in Houston today?  I'm working from home -- my dad's in town until tomorrow, so I'm supervising some ""daddy dos.""   :-) kd 
Plz give Dasovich a copy of the talking points for Ken's bb.  thanks 
fyi... 
FYI.  I will forward draft media responses (win or lose) either Sunday night or Monday morning.  A win would mean we do not have to continue the process of returning the campuses to our service -  as the judge ordered us to do.  A loss would mean that we must continue returning the campuses to our service and therefore we would once again be responsible for buying the campuses' power on the open market.   In either case, we maintain the right to continue the appeal process, and legal will decide whether or not it is appropriate to continue that process after the appeals court decision. Legal does not expect to hear the ruling until Tuesday morning, but there is a chance we could hear something Monday afternoon. Peggy 
I think that's a great idea -- do you or Jeff have some language about the offers that were put on the table in San Diego?  We ought to have that in our back pocket anyway. Susan J Mara 04/24/2001 02:20 PM 
Gang, Can we put on the San Diego offer in about June of last year -- the part that made it into the public domain via the STeve Peace leak? Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 
Attached is a history of inaction by the CPUC in regards to long-term contracts. We are graphically portraying this as a timeline, incorporating the quotes. We would like to also incorporate any public long-term contract offers IEP members made that utilities were not able to enter into because of the CPUC. ?This will once again help reinforce that IEP members are part of the solution. ? Please forward this information, or any other comments, to me or Katie by 8am PST, Thursday April 26. Please call if you have any questions. Thanks, Jean -- Jean Munoz McNally Temple Associates, Inc. 916-447-8186 916-447-6326 (fx) - Long Term Contract Timeline 
Thought you'd get a kick out of the following message board posting... Author: emschulze=20 Number: 5208of 5251=20 
oh. my. gosh.  Freeman is again out to save the world... Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/12/2000 10:50 PM 
I'd say, ""What next?"", but I'm afraid to ask.... Regarding our California strategy, preventing the merger would seem to be right up there with ""end the price caps"" in our list of priorities.  At today's FERC hearing, a hair-brained consumer advocate called for merging the PX and the ISO.  During the panel I was on, I made the point that a merger would make California's problems worse than they are today.  The FERC Commissioners seemed somewhat responsive to my concerns. P.S. After the panel, Heber lobbied me hard to support transcos. DJ Freeman Sees Cal/ISO, PX Merger, Lower Price Cap Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. By Jason Leopold Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES SAN DIEGO (Dow Jones) -- David Freeman, seen a likely replacement for Marcie Edwards on the board of governors of the California Independent System Operator, said his first order of business would be to try and merge the ISO and the California Power Exchange. Edwards resigned her post on the ISO Thursday. An informal consensus among the board has already approved his membership. Freeman told Dow Jones Newswires that the $250 per megawatthour wholesale power price cap in California is too high, and that he would like to see it reduced below $100/MWh. ""I think my role (on the board) will help the state solve it's serious generation shortage problem,"" Freeman said. Some market participants said Freeman is expected to run for chair of the ISO's board of governors, a seat currently held by Jan Smutny-Jones. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power has this summer been able to sell the ISO power in the real time market, and make a great profit for itself in return. By Jason Leopold (323)658-3874. 
this is funny... 
> > Rollin', rollin', rollin', > > Though the state is golden, > > Keep them blackouts rollin', statewide. > > A little colder weather, > > And we all freeze together, > > Wishin' more plants were on the line. > > All the things I'm missin', > > Like lights and television, > > Are waiting 'til we can pay the price. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > > > Keep movin', movin', movin', > > Though they're disapprovin', > > Keep them rates a-movin', statewide. > > Don't try to understand 'em, > > Just raise, charge, and collect 'em. > > Soon we'll be livin' high and wide. > > My heart's calculatin', > > Nuclear plants will be waitin', > > Be waitin' at the end of my ride. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > STATEWIDE!!! 
Grid Managmeent Charge? 
Grid  Managmeent Charge? I assume that it is true because, on net, all market participants are owed money by the ISO for power deliveries and ancillary service made available in November, December, January, etc.  I need to know if my assumption is on solid ground.  Do you have any opinion (corporate) as to what this means to the future of the ISO?  My wild guess is that without money to pay its employees, and other costs, the ship soon sinks.  Or does it?  This will be a major story probably later this week, so feed me please. Also, any comments on Dunn's Senate Committee (State of CA) hearings that is turning into a witch hunt? gba 
Now I know why you were scribbling in that little blue book!  Great notes! Sounds like Tuesday was quite a circus -- and a long, drawn-out one, too.  I think you did great and wish Steve and I could have stayed for Tuesday's 
A friend of mine passed this on to me...Gray Davis has won a Whopper of the Week award from Slate. Eric > SLATE POLITICS > > Mon., April 16, 2001 > > chatterbox > > Whopper of the Week: Gray Davis > > By Timothy Noah > > ""I am going to will my way to a solution that is financially viable and within the existing rate structure....'Leadership' means raise rates.... 'Bold' means raise rates. 'Decisive' means raise rates. Everything means raise rates. That makes everyone on Wall Street happy. It does nothing to 
good idea... 
Karen: After we got off the phone, we had another idea re: messaging on direct access that we thought we would share with you so that you could pass it on during your next discussion with Peggy, Jim, Jeff, et.al. Since Enron has a good relationship with Cisco Systems, would it be possible to have John Chambers and Cisco deliver some of Enron's messages re: direct access, i.e. Like the UC and CSU system, Cisco entered into a contract with Enron for energy services Enron continues to honor its contract with Cisco,  Cisco remains an Enron customer. Although PG&E now supplies the electrons instead of Enron, Cisco still pays the same amount for its energy Since the inception of the contract, Cisco has saved XXX million. The legislature should restore direct access (SB27x) so that businesses can continue to manage their energy costs 
I get so worked up over this issue...  I really think now is the time to speak up and dissent.  Skilling told us at a floor meeting that as an organization we've made poor decisions in the past, and he believes it's because the people who disagreed with those decisions never spoke up.  So help me out! 
Before any decision is made, I think we really need to weigh in with EES on the ramifications (both PR and legislative) of turning back 16,000 residential customers.  I strongly believe that the public hit we will take will be far greater than our actual out-of-pocket losses.  We will be crucified by the public, media, consumer groups, legislators, governor, attorney general, etc.,  and this action will reaffirm our reputation of packing up and leaving when it's not in our interest.  The impact of this action would be exacerbated since it is on the heels of UC/CSU. I would also argue that this hurts our national dereg efforts.  If we're advocating that competition and choice benefits consumers and then we turn around and pull out of a market and abandon customers when we're not ""profiting,"" we'll kill any chances we have of ever serving retail customers in California -- or in any other state.  We look foolish advocating for direct access when we're not willing to serve our existing -- let alone future customers What about a preemptive strike that engages these 16,000 customers to weigh in on direct access -- i.e. a letter that says ""Enron may be forced to cancel its contract -- call/write/send the enclosed postcard to your legislator and 
In the meeting today, no decision was made about what to do with Enron's 16,000 residential customers.   Each of the contracts gives a basic 30 day out right to Enron. That being said, I think that we have a short window to push for DA before any public action impacts us in Sacramento. I realize that the ultimate action (which I think is inevitable) makes it harder for our advocacy on DA, but real $ are flowing out of the company. EES will give us notice when a decision is reached. Thanks, Jim 
Janel -- I've set up a conference call w/ Marathon and Peggy for 4:30 p.m. today to talk about UC/CSU.  Can you join? Let me know and i'll set up a 
fyi... 
fyi, I asked Edelman to send me the direct access pitch they are using with the media this week, and here it is.... 
Sure thing. Here's the pitch: Looking for a new twist on  the California energy story?? A conflict that's not being  covered? Tension is at fever pitch between the state's business community  and policy makers/Davis Administration over the issue of direct access.  Simply put, many forces are trying to kill direct access, which allows  businesses and residential users to buy their energy from alternative energy  providers instead of their local utility.? Yet for businesses this  summer, the option to bypass their local utility if they can ink a better  energy deal somewhere else may provide the thin margin that keeps them in  business.? And PG&E's recent bankruptcy filing begs the question:  why not let someone else provide power? As California business screams  for relief, the Department of Water Resources, legislature, utilities, some  consumer groups and the PUC continue to erect barriers against direct  access-which has been in a state of suspended animation since the passage of  AB1x.? Each player has its own reasons to push for the demise of direct  access.?? A large coalition of business interests is fuming  (see direct access coalition list below).? Already rocked by record  power prices and worried about recession, they fear that if direct access is  not resuscitated soon through emergency legislation, it will be one more  reason to raise prices, lay off workers, or shut their doors.? And they  wonder: why are our state's policymakers killing direct access at the time  businesses need it most as they confront escalating power bills?? It is  widely assumed that the Department of Water Resources has not contracted for  enough power this summer to avoid paying high prices in the spot  market.? Yet, the more power DWR doesn't need to buy because large users  have done it for themselves, the less financial exposure the state  incurs.? Last week, for the first time, Governor Davis suggested  that he may be supportive of letting businesses shop for their own power, but  it is unclear at this time how solid his support may be.? Meanwhile, the  Legislature continues to run in circles and do everything it can to avoid  meaningful action on this issue.? Direct access was one issue at the  center of the fissure between Assembly Republicans when they replaced their  leadership two weeks ago.? Senator Bowen's much-awaited ""clean-up"" bill,  SB 27x, has been more than a disappointment-in fact it's perceived as  ensuring there will be no customer choice. But don't take my word.  Edelman can arrange interviews with the California Chamber of Commerce,  California Retailers Association, California Manufacturers & Technology  Association, Calpine and other organizations fighting to preserve direct  access as well as individual businesses/organizations who have chosen to  bypass their local utilities and cut their own power deals in order to reap  huge savings and/or gain certainty about their energy budgets.? These  companies include high tech, hotel and grocery chains, school districts, and  large retailers.? This is a timely, controversial story that needs  to be told-and it hasn't truly been covered so far by the mainstream  media.? Please contact Erica Manuel or Stevan Allen at Edelman Public  Relations Worldwide at (916) 442-2331 to arrange interviews or receive more  information. ?Building Owners & Managers Association Of  California California Chamber Of Commerce California Grocers  Association California Health Care Association California Manufacturers  & Technology Association California Large Energy Consumers  Association California Retailers Association California State  University California Healthcare Association AES NewEnergy Association  Of Bay Area Governments Power OCLI - A JDS Uniphase Company Ralphs Grocery  Company Kaiser Permanente Enron Corporation Los Angeles Economic  Development Corporation Green Mountain Energy Company Independent Energy  Producers The Alliance For Retail Energy Markets (AreM) The New Power  Company University Of California School Project For Utility Rate  Reduction California Utility Buyers JPA 
nyuck nyuck nyuck...  :-) 
and i was going to lose sleep tonight... 
no clue -- sorry. 
The following are the California television markets that air the PBS show, the McCuistion Program: Pomona - MVP1 - ch. 26 Rohnert Park - KRCB - ch. 22 Sacramento - KVIE - ch. 6 San Bernardino & Riverside - KVCR - ch. 24 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
Edison Reach An Agreement 
Business Heats Up 
Business Heats Up FYI - not sure if you guys saw this!  Still looking for a corporate customer to go on record. Peggy 
Please see following news article and White House press release: Clinton Offers Federal Funds for Electricity Woes in California 08/23/2000 Dow Jones Business News (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- President Clinton will direct federal agencies to provide financial assistance to low-income families and small businesses in Southern California to help them cope with high electricity bills, the White House said. California utility regulators earlier this week imposed a partial rate cap on electric bills for San Diego residents, responding to public panic about power prices that have more than doubled this summer because of volatility in the state's deregulated energy market. The deregulation of California's $20 billion power market was supposed to lower prices by creating greater competition. But demand for electricity has outstripped supply because of a booming economy and less power available from other areas. Clinton ordered the release of $2.6 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program to help low-income families while the Small Business Administration will urge its lending partners to use SBA credit programs to help small businesses with their energy costs. In addition, Mr. Clinton has called on Energy Secretary Bill Richardson to ask the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to speed up an investigation into the wholesale market for electricity ""so that state and federal regulators and policy makers can have the information they need to protect 
It's unfortunate that the state's largest utility was forced to turn to the courts for a resolution.  Solutions to the state's energy crisis have been available for months that would have avoided this scenario, but Gov. Davis and the Legislature lacked the bold leadership to take swift, decisive action. Enron's exposure to PG&E will not have any material effect on earnings or on our financial condition. If pressed:  Any further comment would be speculative, as we have not yet 
Ken Lay put a call in today to Scott McNealy.  His office called back to find out what specific bill included direct access.  When I called back, they put me in touch with Mavis Toscano, who's in Sun Microsystems' state and local government affairs office.  She's Scott's point person on public policy, and she's been working on the energy issue.  Mavis had done some checking and no one had heard anything about direct access. Sun is active in three main trade associations: the Chamber, the American Electronics Association (AEA) and Technet.  None of those organizations said their members were asking for direct access, but Mavis promised to put calls in to them and get direct access on the radar screen.  Although she said they're not inclined to send letters, Mavis said she'd make some calls into the legislators, specifically Bowen. Contact info: Mavis Toscano 901 San Antonio Road MS PAL 01-554 Palo Alto, CA 94303 650-336-7115 650-336-0835 - fax 
Attached is the matrix I referenced in my email about AReM/DA Coalition efforts... - DAC Contact List 442001.xls 
Attached is the list of influential contacts in the key legislative districts we've identified.  I've made the following assignments: Burton -- Jeff Bowen - Paul Hertzberg - Sue (since these businesses are in the San Fernando Valley, they probably heard you speak at VICA last week -- or they might have heard OF you!) Keeley - Jim Cox - Sandi (since the three contacts are in Sacramento) The names with an asterisk received the package from Ken Lay on Tuesday. I've also attached the message points we gave to Ken. Please let me know if you get any feedback.  Thanks for helping out and making these calls. kd 
Public Power Renewable Energy Action Team Launched; Non-Profit Center for Resource Solutions Assumes Management Responsibilities SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 3, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Municipal utilities in California have come together behind renewable resources. Volatile electricity markets are making renewable energy increasingly cost-effective, and a team of municipal utilities plans to deploy renewable resources as a means to ensure the continued competitiveness of public power. The Center for Resource Solutions (CRS), a non-profit organization based in San Francisco, has assumed management and organizational responsibilities for the group, which is called the Public Power Renewable Energy Action Team (PPREAT). Key supporters of PPREAT include the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, City of Anaheim, Northern California Power Agency and many other municipal utilities in California. PPREAT aims to: -- Aggregate demand for renewable energy among public power utilities; -- Move renewable energy into mainstream power planning processes; -- Identify opportunities for public power joint-ownership of renewable energy projects; -- Leverage federal and state renewable energy project development technical assistance; -- Hedge against future volatile electricity prices; -- Create a common public power branding strategy around renewable energy resources; and -- Develop a replicable model for joint-ownership of renewable energy projects. While PRPEAT's initial collaborators come from California, PPREAT participants ultimately hope to work with public power agencies from across the nation. Information on PPREAT and its activities will be available at www.resource-solutions.org. CRS will soon issue a Request For Proposals for soliciting partners in the renewable energy industry to collaborate with PPREAT in response to the CEC PIER Renewable Energy Program Area Grant RFP. For more information, contact Kirk Brown at CRS at 415-561-2100 or email at: kirkbrown@resource-solutions.org. CONTACT: CRS   |              Keri Bolding, 415/561-2100, | 
I talked to Tracy Fairchild today about Edelman's efforts on behalf of ARM and the Direct Access Coalition and learned the following: The DA Coalition is willing to take media calls -- Tracy has identified coalition members who will talk to the media, and she is forwarding to me the list of these members and their contact information.  The three lead organizations in the coalition are the California Retailers Association, the California Chamber of Commerce and the California Manufacturers and Technology Association. Since February, these key members have changed their position on whether to participate in a press conference, and now they do not want to participate in a media event.  The reason is that there are other energy issues they're working on with legislators that they feel are more important than direct access (rate increase unfairly targets large businesses, interruptible issues, etc.).  They fear that if they participate in a direct access press conference, that issue will appear to be more important to them than these other issues.  In addition, there is now a desire by these organizations to distance themselves from ESPs because of the turnback of customers.  Many of the businesses are not thrilled with how direct access has worked, and ESPs are viewed as the bad guys. Furthermore, these business organizations view a press conference as offensive to the legislature and governor. One universal comment that Tracy had received from the DA Coalition and ARM members is that any event should not include Enron participation.  The UC/CSU issue has really painted us in a bad light, and no one wants to be associated with us. Tracy has been pleading for customers who are willing to talk about direct access, and she is starting to get a few.  Once she has customers, she believes she can pull together a press conference.  The target date is the week of April 16, although that may change so it doesn't coincide w/ the investigation hearings. ARM has been talking about introducing its own bill.  She'll keep me posted on this. Early on, Tracy had been successful pitching the retail story.  She's now working on a second mainstream media pitch about the conflict surrounding direct access: legislation is needed to fix AB1X, the utilities want to kill direct access, businesses want choice,  ARM has been screwed by Bowen (i'm sure she'll soften this angle) and  CDWR has concerns about direct access. I'll pass along any new information as I receive it. thx. 
Here's another tidbit about EES deals in CA.  I think the deal w/ the Helix= =20 Water District would be a good case study to feature on our CA website.  I'= m=20 having Jeannie Mandelker write these case studies -- Peoples, Roseville,=20 etc.,  Any suggestions to add? 
FYI, read the item below about the 25+ deals EES signed in CA.  There must = be=20 several customers who are willing to weigh in on the direct access issue. = =20 Jim, now that you've added EES to your plate, can you influence the=20 discussions at EES about having customers participate?  I have the sense th= at=20 the pushback is from us, not them. thx. kd 
Glad to see we're doing our part to help the West's energy crisis...  we can milk the heck out of this story :-) kd PGE wants to convert manure to methane 04/03/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. SALEM, Ore. (AP) - Oregon's energy future may be chewing cud in Bernie Faber's pasture. His 500 cows will provide tons of manure to be converted to methane to generate electricity in a pilot project operated by Portland General Electric. The project is expected to generate about 100 kilowatts of electricity - enough for about 65 homes - by July. ""When you consider how many dairy farms there are in Oregon, this could be a significant source of power,"" said PGE spokesman Mark Fryburg. About 89,000 milk cows were reported on state farms in 1999. PGE wants to perfect the technology at Faber's Cal-Gon Farm. If the company succeeds, small-scale power plants could become commonplace at Oregon dairy farms. ""We would love to be able to engineer and design these things so we could do them at smaller and smaller dairies over time,"" said Jeff Cole, PGE'; biogas program manger. PGE officials also are interested in developing a 4.5 megawatt, methane-powered energy facility in Morrow County that could provide energy for about 3,000 homes. It would depend on manure from dairies relocating to the area to support a Tillamook County Creamery Association cheese plant. The disposal of livestock waste has become an expensive and complex problem for farms as environmental regulations tighten. A typical dairy cow produces about 150 pounds of waste each day. Methane-powered generators, such as PGE's project, reduce the odors associated with dairies and create useful byproducts: a nitrogen-rich liquid fertilizer and an odorless dry fiber that can be used to make potting soils. At Faber's farm, construction of a 28-foot high concrete tank where waste will be converted into methane is nearly complete. PGE officials compare the tank to a giant stomach, where bacteria in manure continues the digestion process and produces flammable methane. A modified, internal combustion engine will burn the methane for fuel and drive power turbines. After the manure is processed, the leftovers will be pumped through a solid separator, taken off site, and composted. Liquids will be stored at a lagoon at the dairy. 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
Jeff/Janel/Paul -- I was just thinking about influential people to contact our top 5 legislators plus Davis...  Besides the Silicon Valley CEOs, Mike Peevey is pretty tight with and trusted by Davis.  When we met w/ Peevey, he told us he was in agreement on direct access -- how about a call to him asking him to weigh in w/ Davis.  Also, Peevey's wife is a freshman assemblywoman (Carol Liu, I think).  So I think Peevey is a key influential. 
fyi... you were right -- an employee did forward the email on California --= =20 and we got great feedback! 
What cracks me up is that Gary is so proud of himself! 
Personally, this is my favorite quote from the entire crisis.? It was in Mike Taugher's column of the Contra Costa Times, today. gba ? Some observers were incredulous, noting Davis' ?????????????????????????? reputation as a micromanager who keeps ?????????????????????????? appointees on a short leash. ?????????????????????????? ""The PUC has been run like his personal cabinet for ?????????????????????????? a year and a half,"" said Gary Ackerman, director of ?????????????????????????? the Western Power Trading Forum, a Menlo ?????????????????????????? Park-based association of electricity generators and ?????????????????????????? traders. ""This one's got me floored. The governor ?????????????????????????? once again is a day late. The Oscars for best actor 
check out this website... you can also listen to the radio advertisement that's been running in CA. 
Karen: I think I located the republican ad re: energy crisis and Gray Davis.  It is at: www.saveourpower.com under ""Hear the ad""  I was unable to open the audio file.  I hope you can. 
fyi, I asked Dale Kasler at the Sacramento Bee for advance questions for Jeff's phone interview next Wednesday, and these are what he sent -- gives you an idea of where he's headed...  Let's talk about any concerns you may have, and we can certainly prep Jeff for this one.  thx. kd 
I'll place the call from Skilling's office.? Do you have specific questions I can pass along to Jeff ahead of time?? It's probably a good idea since you'll be talking about events 8 years ago, and he'll need some time to think about it.? thx. kd Dale Kasler <DKasler@sacbee.com> on 03/22/2001 02:38:46 PM 
Karen, ??????? 2 p.m. Calif time on the 28th is fine for the Skilling interview. You calling me, or vice versa? DK 
Tim -- This is the only article our ""research department"" could find.  Hope it's the one you were looking for.  kd 
nope, we don't, so I've asked Marathon to call and find out who all the speakers are.  Will let you know. 
We don't stand a chance... Can you imagine working for a company that has a little more than 500 employees and has the following statistics: *29 have been accused of spousal abuse *7 have been arrested for fraud *19 have been accused of writing bad checks *117 have directly or indirectly bankrupted at leased 2 businesses *3 have done time for assault *71 cannot get a credit card due to bad credit *14 have been arrested on drug-related charges *8 have been arrested for shoplifting *21 are currently defendants in lawsuits *84 have been arrested for drunk driving in the last year Can you guess which organization this is? Give up yet? It's the 535 members of the United States Congress.  The same group that cranks out hundreds of new laws each year designed to keep the rest of us 
30 days is hardly long-term.... i think we should call him on it. 
fyi 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
Davis Wants Generators to Accept Less Than Owed (Update2) 2/28/1 18:56 (New York) Davis Wants Generators to Accept Less Than Owed (Update2) (Adds names of California generators in fifth paragraph, and Reliant comment in sixth.) New York, Feb. 28 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis said he intends to ask power generators to accept partial payment for power sold to the state's cash-strapped utilities this summer and winter, Wall Street analysts who attended a closed-door meeting with the governor said. ``It looks like the people he wants sharing the pain are the companies generating power sold to utilities,'' said Kevin Boone, a bond analyst with Bear, Stearns & Co. who attended the meeting in New York. ``He wants to force them to take cents on the dollar. That seems to be what his initial proposal will be.'' PG&E Corp.'s Pacific Gas & Electric, and Edison International's Southern California Edison, the state's largest utilities, are near bankruptcy after accumulating more than $12 billion in debt buying power from generators at soaring prices. Regulators have not let the utilities pass on most of their power- buying debt to consumers. Davis said some generators have approached him with offers to accept less than full payment, said Michael Worms, a utility analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co. Davis spoke to about 35 analysts from Wall Street and energy-research firms in New York in a meeting that was criticized by investors and analysts who were not allowed to attend. No Names Mentioned Davis didn't specify which companies came to him with partial- payment proposals, analysts said. Duke Energy Corp., Calpine Corp., Willams Cos., Dynegy Inc. and Reliant Energy Inc. are among the biggest suppliers of electricity to California utilities. ``I'm not aware of him talking to anyone at Duke about forgiveness,'' Duke Energy spokesman Tom Williams said. Reliant spokesman Richard Wheatley said Davis's proposal ``doesn't really come as a surprise'' because politicians in Sacramento, the capital of California, have been discussing the idea for weeks. Reliant has opposed anything other than full payment of its debts. ``Williams fully expects to be paid the money that is owed us,'' spokeswoman Paula Hall-Collins said. ``We have worked in very good faith with the state, selling voluntarily into the market, negotiating with them for long-term contracts and working with them to solve the problem.'' Enron Corp., an energy trader that has set aside unspecified reserve for possible losses in California, has not been approached about debt forgiveness, said Karen Denne, a company spokeswoman. ``This proposal. . . is news to us,'' and does not address the immediate problem of electricity shortages in California this summer, Denne said. Industry analysts say California, which has already had scattered blackouts this winter, will face more this summer when power demand surges. Buying the Grid Davis said at the meeting that negotiations to buy PG&E Corp.'s power transmission system may take another 30 days, though he was optimistic an agreement could be reached within two weeks, analysts said. He offered few other specifics on the PG&E talks, said Steve Fetter, group managing director of global power for Fitch Inc. State officials are trying to reach agreement with PG&E and Edison, as well as with Sempra Energy, to buy their transmission lines as part of a plan to help them pay debt and borrow money at low interest rates to avoid bankruptcy. A tentative agreement to buy Edison's lines for $2.76 billion was reached last week. Talks with Sempra are continuing. The governor said he was optimistic an agreement with PG&E could be reached in two weeks, but negotiations could drag on longer, Fetter said. ``We are making progress,'' Davis said at a news conference after the analysts meeting at the Cornell Club on the east side of Manhattan. ``We are close to a final agreement with (Edison) and relatively close with Sempra.'' The governor told analysts he's confident he can get a utility rescue plan that doesn't require an immediate rate increase, but Davis did say that rate increases are going to be needed at some unspecified time in the future, Fetter said. Davis said he wasn't sure if he resolved all of analysts' doubts about California's plans to save its utilities from bankruptcy. ``He's in a hole and he's got a long way to go to get out of it,'' said Paul Patterson, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston who attended the meeting. ``We still don't have a final solution in sight.'' Shares of San Francisco-based PG&E fell 9 cents to $13.96. Rosemead, California-based Edison shares fell 4 cents to $14.90. San Diego-based Sempra fell 16 cents to $22.15. --Mark Johnson and Jonathan Berr in New York (212) 318-2300 or mjohnson7@bloomberg.net and jberr@bloomberg.net with reporting by Margot Habiby in Dallas and Jim Kennett in Houston/alp 
Any chance you can find out if Angelides has found someone to carry his proposal in the Legislature?  Thanks! kd 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Please review the revised attached press release, which we would like to send out as soon as possible.  Please call Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached is a new draft press release.  First thing in the morning, we need to discuss whether to release this.  Please contact Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Please review the attached press release, which we'd like to issue as soon as possible this morning.  Please confirm that we have, in fact, closed on the $450 million, and let me know if you have any additional comments. Thank you. Karen 713-853-9757 
A full list of articles will be sent on Monday, but here is some initial co= verage from yesterday and today... IN THE MONEY: Enron - From Energy Trader To Spinmeister By Carol S. Remond 11/23/2001 Dow Jones News Service=20 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 A Dow Jones Newswires Column=20 (This column was originally published Wednesday.)=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- With the value of its stock continuing to plummet, E= nron Corp. (ENE) tried to put on a good face Wednesday by issuing a press r= elease touting, among other things, increased liquidity. The problem is that most of the so-called news was three days old, recycled= from the company's latest quarterly filing.=20 And investors weren't fooled by the release. Although the stock of the emba= ttled Houston energy trader regained some ground immediately after the rele= ase, climbing to $5.35 a share from $4.60, it quickly gave up most of its g= ains. One hour after the release, Enron stock was back trading at $4.98 a s= hare, down more than 28% on the day.=20 ""They had to say something, but really didn't have any new news. It's quite= incredible,"" said a Wall Street analyst covering Enron.=20 Amid mounting fears that Enron's credit woes could thwart its plan to merge= with rival Dynegy Inc. (DYN), a merger that many see as the only way for E= nron to avoid possible bankruptcy, Enron began its press release by announc= ing that ""it has closed on the remaining $450 million of a previously annou= nced $1 billion in secured credit lines...""=20 Great news, given the way Enron has been burning through cash. Except that = investors who took time to read Enron's filing with the Securities and Exch= ange Commission on Monday already knew that ""on November 19, 2001, Enron cl= osed a $450 million new secured line of credit, which will mature in the fo= urth quarter of 2002."" Readers of the company's 10-Q also knew that the $45= 0 million credit was secured by the assets of Enron's Northern Natural Gas = Co.=20 Meanwhile, the real news everyone was waiting for, an announcement about wh= ether a $690 million loan due next Tuesday had been extended, has yet to be= finalized.=20 Enron said in its release that it expected that an extension to mid-Decembe= r would be formalized soon.=20 Separately, people familiar with the matter said J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. an= d Citigroup Inc. continue to work with Enron to extend the maturity of the = syndicated loan, which contains a clause that, unbeknownst to many, was tri= ggered by Enron's ratings downgrade to ""BBB-"" by Standard & Poor's Corp. ea= rlier this month. The clause stipulated that Enron would have to repay the = $690 million note on November 27 if it didn't post collateral.=20 Those people said that the syndicated loan, which is built inside a structu= red vehicle used to finance minority interests in power and energy sectors = around the world, would likely be extended to the middle of 2002 when other= bank loans to Enron come due. About $1.75 billion of Enron's $3.5 billion = in syndicated bank loans come due in May 2002 and will likely need to be re= structured.=20 About $250 million of the assets securing the $690 million loan are in the = process of being sold and will be used to pay down the loan, reducing the o= utstanding portion of the loan that will need to be restructured, according= to the people familiar with the terms.=20 Meanwhile, Dynegy also tried to rally, although somewhat halfheartedly, inv= estors around its plan to acquire Enron's stock. Dynegy said it was encoura= ged by reports that Enron closed on its remaining $450 million credit facil= ity and news of the extension of the $690 million loan. Under the terms of = the acquisition, Enron holders would receive 0.2685 Dynegy share for each E= nron share.=20 Investors, however, remain more circumspect, unmoved by the whopping 104% r= isk premium currently attached to the merger. (That's how much investors bu= ying Enron shares would make if the deal was closing Wednesday.)=20 Aside from continued worries about how much bad news may still come, analys= ts and traders appear particularly concerned with Enron's liquidity, or lac= k thereof, going forward.=20 ""We're having a hard time believing that this new credit infusion (from the= banks), even with the $1.5 billion from Dynegy, will provide enough liquid= ity for Enron,"" one risk arbitrageur at a New York hedge fund said.=20 As part of the merger agreement between Dynegy and Enron, Chevron Texaco, w= hich owns 26% of Dynegy, already injected $1.5 billion into Enron. Another = $1 billion is expected upon closing of the deal.=20 Carol S. Remond, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2074; carol.remond@dowjones.c= om ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 USA: Houston economy seen weathering major layoffs. By Ellen Chang 11/23/2001 Reuters English News Service=20 (C) Reuters Limited 2001.=20 HOUSTON, Nov 23 (Reuters) - Houston's economy, buffered by a broad and dive= rse tax base, should be able to weather thousands of layoffs from some of t= he city's major corporations, including energy powerhouse Enron Corp., econ= omists and analysts said.=20 Financially ailing Enron Corp. , which has 21,000 employees worldwide and i= s in talks to be bought by Houston-based rival Dynegy Inc. , is the third m= ajor employer in the city to announce severe financial problems in recent m= onths. Analysts expect layoffs if the merger occurs. Continental announced a layoff of 3,000 employees after the Sept. 11 attack= s and Hewlett-Packard Co.'s plan to buy Compaq Computer Corp. will, if fina= lized, result in 15,000 layoffs at the two companies. Compaq also announced= 8,000 layoffs worldwide in July.=20 ""It's fair to say that the potential layoffs at Enron and the layoffs at Co= ntinental, taken alone, are negative factors, although probably small in th= e grand scope of the Houston economy,"" said Phil Scheps, director of Housto= n's finance and administration department.=20 Since last month when Enron became a target of a Securities and Exchange Co= mmission investigation into financial dealings with partnerships, the energ= y giant's market share has steadily eroded.=20 While neither Enron nor Dynegy have given any indication of the number of l= ayoffs that could hit Houston, Barton Smith, director of the Institute for = Regional Forecasting at the University of Houston, said the layoffs ""will b= e spread out over a long period of time and will not be excessive.""=20 Robin Kapiloff, an analyst at Moody's Investors Service, said the city's ef= forts to diversify its economy over the past decade will protect its revenu= e collections, even as some of the city's biggest employers suffer. ""We're = watching to see where things go now,"" she said.=20 Alex Fraser, a director at Standard & Poor's, said the ratings agency isn't= concerned about Houston's credit position at this point. ""While Enron is c= ertainly a large player and prominent corporation, we're unclear on what th= e impact would be.""=20 While the fourth largest city in the country experienced a bit of a slowdow= n since the Sept. 11 attacks, Houston has outperformed the rest of the nati= on.=20 With a tax base of $87.3 billion in 2001, Houston is also buffered by the T= exas Medical Center, the city's largest employer. Next year the city's tax = base is estimated to grow to $95 billion.=20 Still, the national recession, energy price weakness in general, and the in= itial loss of consumer confidence related to the attacks has caused the cit= y to reduce its estimate of sales tax growth to 1.5 percent from 5 percent.= That revised estimate equals a $13 million reduction in the city's $1.4 bi= llion budget.=20 But the city's property tax revenue has not been affected. Only a small cha= nge in property tax collections is expected in 2002 because valuations are = based on Jan. 1 data and for most of 2001, real estate growth was very larg= e, Scheps said.=20 While recent economic indicators appear positive, and consumer confidence h= as quickly rebounded, a better read on the strength of Houston's tax revenu= e collections will be available in February when the city receives data for= the December holiday season, Scheps said. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Meeting in Singapore to discuss Enron's arbitration proceedings against Ind= ian state 11/23/2001 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 NEW DELHI, India (AP) - A panel of arbitrators will meet in Singapore on Sa= turday to discuss legal action by Enron Corp. against the western Indian st= ate of Maharashtra, an Enron official said.=20 The Houston-based company has a 65 percent stake in the Dabhol Power Projec= t in western India, and is locked in a dispute with the Maharashtra State E= lectricity Board over unpaid electricity charges. The Singapore meeting is likely to be followed by arbitration in a London c= ourt, Dow Jones Newswires reported, quoting an unidentified Enron official = on Friday.=20 The company suspended operation of the power plant in May and now plans to = withdraw from India.=20 Enron has invested about dlrs 1 billion in equity of the 2,184 megawatt of = power project, the largest ever foreign investment in India.=20 Enron sold electricity produced from naphtha to its sole customer, the gove= rnment-owned power utility in Maharashtra, which found the costs too high.= =20 The company also served notice to the federal government for not honoring a= contract that required the government it to cover the Maharashtra state po= wer utility's unpaid dues.=20 Earlier this year, Enron's chairman Kenneth Lay wrote to Indian Prime Minis= ter Atal Bihari Vajpayee threatening to sue the government for up to dlrs 5= billion if it did not resolve the dispute.=20 Dabhol Power Co. initiated arbitration against the state government for not= honoring guarantees on power bills due for December 2000 and January, this= year.=20 The panel, which has been appointed by the Dabhol Power Company and the Mah= arashtra state government, includes an independent observer.=20 (dj-rkm, ng-kh) ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron SEC filing contained information Dynegy was unaware of - report 11/23/2001 AFX News=20 (c) 2001 by AFP-Extel News Ltd=20 NEW YORK (AFX) - Monday's SEC filing by Enron's Corp contained information = that proposed buyer Dynegy Inc had not known about, the Wall Street Journal= quoted a person familiar with the merger plans as saying.=20 Dynegy representatives plan to work through the weekend evaluating the impo= rtance of this new information as part of the company's due diligence on En= ron, the source said, without specifying what the new information was.=20 In the filing, Enron disclosed hundreds of millions of dollars of potential= additional write-offs as well as the possibility that its weakening financ= ial condition could force it to repay more than 2 bln usd in loans by the e= nd of the year. Dynegy announced Wednesday that it is working to accelerate regulatory appr= ovals required to complete the acquisition in accordance with the previousl= y announced agreement.=20 The Journal quoted analysts as saying Dynegy is coming under increasing pre= ssure to renegotiate or walk away from the deal.=20 It also cited Fitch director Ralph Pellecchia as saying that, without the D= ynegy acquisition and continued support from its bankers and customers, an = Enron bankruptcy-court filing ""is highly possible"".=20 jms For more information and to contact AFX: www.afxnews.com and www.afxpre= ss.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy's Decision to Buy Enron Hits Crossroads Amid Rising Financial Woes 11/23/2001 Dow Jones Business News=20 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Even as it reiterated its intention to purchase Enron Corp., Dynegy Inc. is= coming under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from the mult= ibillion-dollar deal, Friday's Wall Street Journal reported.=20 The pressure is stemming from the continuing slide in the price of Enron (E= NE) shares and the mounting financial problems at the Houston energy-tradin= g company, the nation's biggest marketer of electricity and natural gas. Du= ring the past month, Enron has taken a $1 billion write-off of assets, revi= sed downward the earnings of the past several years and taken a $1.2 billio= n reduction in shareholder equity. The problems have been due largely to dealings Enron had with private partn= erships, run by some of its own executives, under investigation by the Secu= rities and Exchange Commission. In an SEC filing Monday, Enron disclosed hu= ndreds of millions of potential additional write-offs as well as the possib= ility that its weakening financial condition could force it to repay more t= han $2 billion in loans by the end of the year.=20 As of 4 p.m. Wednesday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Enron = shares fell $1.98, or 28%, to $5.01 each after having dropped 23% Tuesday. = In excess of 115 million shares traded Wednesday, more than four times the = volume of any other Big Board stock. Enron's bonds also again traded sharpl= y lower, market observers said.=20 The turmoil spilled over to Dynegy's stock, which also was among the most a= ctively traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of 4 p.m. Wednesday, Dyne= gy (DYN) shares fell $1.94 to $39.76 each.=20 On Wednesday, Dynegy issued a statement in which Chairman and Chief Executi= ve Chuck Watson said his company was working ""to accelerate the regulatory = approvals required to complete the merger in accordance with the previously= announced agreement"" though it continued to perform ""due diligence"" on Enr= on.=20 Under the merger agreement, Dynegy has opportunities to renegotiate or walk= away from the deal if Enron's financial and legal problems become severe e= nough. However, some observers said it can be difficult to invoke these so-= called material adverse change clauses. They point to a decision earlier th= is year by a Delaware Chancery Court judge who forced Tyson Foods Inc. to c= omplete a planned purchase of IBP Inc. even though Tyson, a Springdale, Ark= ., food-products company, had wanted to cancel the transaction because of a= drop in IBP's earnings and accounting problems at an IBP unit.=20 Dynegy officials didn't return calls seeking comment. To complete the deal,= two-thirds of Dynegy shareholders and a majority of Enron shareholders wou= ld have to give their approval. No dates for those votes have been set.=20 One person familiar with the merger plans said the SEC filing Monday by Enr= on contained information Dynegy hadn't known about. Dynegy representatives = planned to work through the weekend evaluating the importance of this new i= nformation as part of the company's due diligence, this person said. It cou= ldn't be determined what the new information was.=20 The merger agreement, announced Nov. 9, calls for Dynegy to exchange 0.2685= share for each of Enron's roughly 850 million fully diluted shares, giving= the purchase a value of about $9 billion at Dynegy's current stock price. = However, from a price standpoint, the deal is appearing less attractive to = Dynegy.=20 On the day of the merger announcement, Enron shares were trading at about $= 8.63 each, or about 83% of the purchase price under the exchange ratio. As = of Wednesday, Enron's market price was only about 47% of the merger-formula= price. Such a sharp deterioration is unusual following a merger announceme= nt, when the stock price of the company being acquired generally begins tra= ding relatively close to the offering price.=20 Sentiment among Wall Street analysts also is turning against the merger. In= itially, many analysts lauded the merger as a move that would rescue Enron = and provide a major boost to Houston-based Dynegy. Dynegy and Enron officia= ls have predicted that the merger, supposed to be completed late next year,= would significantly and immediately increase Dynegy's earnings.=20 Now analysts are challenging that assumption. Ron Barone, managing director= at UBS Warburg LLC, said he believes that because of Enron's financial pro= blems, a combined company would actually have lower earnings next year than= Dynegy would have by itself. Mr. Barone said he thinks a ""likely scenario""= is that the merger formula will be renegotiated sharply down to about 0.15= Dynegy share for each Enron share.=20 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.=20 All Rights Reserved. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Post Investing Enron casts pall on analysts: 'Everyone had a buy on the stock' all the way= down Steve Maich Financial Post, with files from news services 11/23/2001 National Post=20 National IN1 / Front (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved.=20 For thousands of people burned by Enron Corp.'s spectacular implosion, it m= ust have been tough to feel thankful yesterday.=20 Over the past month, the Houston-based company has admitted its earnings re= ports going back four years are useless, written down billions in worthless= investments, and fired its chief financial officer in a failed bid to shor= e up its plunging stock. The slide in Enron's stock (ENE/NYSE) has already wiped out US$67-billion i= n shareholder wealth. Now it may lose its last lifeline, a US$7.93-billion = takeover offer from Dynegy Inc.=20 Enron's fall is proving to be more than just a cautionary tale about sketch= y accounting. The case is raising serious questions about the responsibilit= y of analysts who strongly recommended a stock that many now admit they nev= er really understood.=20 ""The public isn't going to trust stock analysts for awhile,"" said Scott Pre= ston, a San Francisco-based analyst with Research Capital Corp. who does no= t cover Enron. ""Every analyst had a buy on the stock. And it's not like the= re was only one little issue there. It's a mess and big brokerages were com= ing out as it was on the way down saying put this thing in your Grandmother= 's [RRSP].""=20 But Wall Street's embarrassment pales next to the pain of shareholders, inc= luding Enron employees whose pensions were loaded with the stock.=20 ""I have lost my savings, my plans for the future, everything,"" Roy Rinard, = a long-time Enron staffer, said this week as he announced that employees ha= ve banded together for a class-action lawsuit against the company.=20 Several analysts have acknowledged that Enron's financial statements were r= outinely incomprehensible. But with brokerages vying for the millions of do= llars in equity and bond underwriting business Enron provided every year, m= any analysts chose to focus on the company's growth, and failed to ask toug= h questions about its books.=20 Critics say the red flags were waving long ago.=20 The first clear sign of trouble came Aug. 14, when Jeffrey Skilling quit th= e CEO job he took over just seven months earlier, citing personal reasons. = Former chief executive Kenneth Lay reclaimed the job. ""Our business is stro= ng and our growth prospects have never been better,"" Mr. Lay said at the ti= me.=20 In fact, cracks were already appearing in the business. Enron's plan to sta= rt trading capacity on fibre optic networks was a costly failure, and the c= ompany was locked in a prolonged dispute with the Indian government over en= ergy purchases in the region.=20 In October, Enron surprised investors by reporting its first quarterly loss= in more than four years, due in large part to the writedown of US$1-billio= n in bad investments. Within a week, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commi= ssion started investigating Enron's finances.=20 The company soon admitted major accounting errors dating back to 1997. Its = profits had been overstated by US$586-million, or 20%. The company revealed= that some of the investments it had written off were limited partnerships = headed by CFO Andrew Fastow -- a serious breach of good corporate governanc= e. Mr. Fastow was fired, but it didn't stop Enron's descent.=20 The pain may be far from over.=20 Facing a year of regulatory hearings to approve the merger, and a rapidly d= evaluing asset in Enron, many fear Dynegy will walk away from the deal. If = that happens, Enron may be doomed.=20 The stock closed Wednesday at US$5.01, down 93% this year. Dynegy closed at= US$39.76, valuing the Enron offer at US$10.67 a share. The fact that Enron= 's stock is trading so far below the offer price is a sure sign that invest= ors doubt it will proceed, at least not at the current offer price.=20 All this has left investors wondering how so many could have been so wrong,= about so much. And how can so many continue to endorse the stock?=20 Of the 18 analysts that cover the stock, 10 still rate it a ""buy."" Goldman = Sachs analyst David Fleisher removed Enron from his recommended list this w= eek, but only after his firm was excluded from the banking syndicate arrang= ing the Dynegy deal.=20 Carol Coale, an analyst at Prudential Securities, dropped Enron from ""buy"" = to ""sell"" this week, citing its long history of spotty disclosure, and ofte= n evasive answers to questions. She acknowledged to clients that her downgr= ade is ""too little, too late"" for many. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Post: World Enron looking for US$1.5B boost to balance sheet: Expects cash from buyout = firms, private equity investors Robert Clow Financial Times 11/23/2001 National Post=20 National FP12 (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved.=20 NEW YORK - Officials working to shore up Enron Corp.'s balance sheet said y= esterday the struggling energy trader hoped to receive capital injections o= f more than US$1.5-billion as early as next week.=20 Enron is in talks about investments of US$250-million with JP Morgan Chase = and Citigroup and is also hoping to raise at least US$1-billion from privat= e equity investors. People close to Enron declined to comment on which buyout firms might wish = to invest in Enron, but the Blackstone Group, which was reported to be talk= ing to the company before Dynegy Inc. made its US$9-billion rescue bid, is = understood not to be talking to Enron any longer.=20 Members of the 20-strong bank lending group, led by JP Morgan Chase and Cit= igroup, are being asked to defer the maturities of their upcoming debt unti= l after completion of the merger.=20 The move comes as reports from Goldman Sachs & Co. and Fitch, the credit ra= ting agency, raised questions about the company's cash flow and its medium-= term viability.=20 David Fleischer, a Goldman Sachs analyst, argued that cash balances were in= adequate to meet US$2.8-billion of debt obligations falling due before the = end of the year. People close to Enron say that nearly US$1-billion of that= debt has already been restructured.=20 The Fitch report said that if the Dynegy deal was not completed Enron would= struggle to meet US$9-billion of obligations, due before the end of next y= ear.=20 People close to Enron insisted Dynegy remained committed to the merger and = played down talk of renegotiation.=20 Dynegy would shortly issue a statement reasserting its commitment to the de= al, they predicted.=20 But bankers acknowledged the fate of the Dynegy deal was largely irrelevant= in terms of the company's immediate liquidity problems.=20 The company has raised about US$7-billion in cash, enough to cover its oper= ating costs since a US$1.2-billion writedown of shareholder equity plunged = it into crisis on Oct. 16.=20 However, the company's cash flow is being squeezed. The computer screens in= front of energy traders at Enron's London headquarters still glow, even if= they are doing much less business following the U.S. group's financial woe= s.=20 The Belgravia offices house Europe's biggest electricity trader, which acco= unts for about a fifth of all European power contracts, worth roughly (ps)7= 0-billion ($158-billion) last year in British, Nordic and other European ma= rkets.=20 Fears over Enron's credit rating have prompted a sharp fall in its European= electricity trading. Nonetheless, some companies that had previously withd= rawn from buying and selling power with Enron have resumed trading with it = in the short-term market.=20 Few want to risk trading further than a week or two ahead, however, given c= ontinuing doubts over the company's finances. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal WHAT'S NEWS United States Wall Street Journal 11/23/2001 The Globe and Mail=20 Metro B9 ""All material Copyright (c) Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licenso= rs. All rights reserved.""=20 Two Enron Corp. workers are suing the company, claiming it endangered their= retirement funds. The lawsuit, filed in Houston under the Employee Retirem= ent Income Security Act, alleges that Enron encouraged the employees to inv= est more heavily in company stock just before the stock tanked. The lawsuit= was filed by Portland, Ore., utility lineman Roy Rinard and co-worker, Ste= ve Lacey. Enron shares have plunged more than 90 per cent over the past sev= eral months after an accounting controversy that eventually caused it to re= state its earnings since 1997, eliminating more than $580-million (U.S.) of= reported income. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 COMPANIES & FINANCE THE AMERICAS - Enron 'awaiting' capital injections, say= officials. By ROBERT CLOW. 11/23/2001 Financial Times=20 (c) 2001 Financial Times Limited . All Rights Reserved=20 Officials working to shore up Enron's balance sheet yesterday said the stru= ggling energy trader hoped to receive capital injections of more than $1.5b= n as early as next week.=20 Enron is in talks about $250m investments with JP Morgan Chase and Citigrou= p and is also hoping to raise at least $1bn from private equity investors. People close to Enron declined to comment on which buyout firms might wish = to invest in Enron. However, the Blackstone Group, which was reported to be= talking to the company before Dynegy made its $9bn rescue bid, is understo= od no longer to be doing so.=20 Members of the 20-strong bank lending group, led by JP Morgan Chase and Cit= igroup, are being asked to defer the maturities of their upcoming debt unti= l after the completion of the merger.=20 The moves comes as reports from Goldman Sachs and Fitch, the credit rating = agency, raised questions about the company's cash flow and its medium-term = viability.=20 David Fleischer, a Goldman Sachs analyst, argued that cash balances were in= adequate to meet $2.8bn of debt obligations falling due before the end of t= he year.=20 People close to Enron say that nearly $1bn of that debt has already been re= structured.=20 The Fitch report said that if the Dynegy deal was not completed, Enron woul= d struggle to meet $9bn of obligations due before the end of next year.=20 People close to Enron insisted that Dynegy remained committed to the merger= and played down talk of renegotiation.=20 Dynegy would shortly issue a statement reasserting its commitment to the de= al, they predicted.=20 (c) Copyright Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved.=20 http://www.ft.com. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy's Bid for Enron Appears Less Appealing --- Merger Deal Loses Luster = as Shares Tumble --- Acquisition Target Faces Numerous Earnings Problems By Rebecca Smith and John R. Emshwiller Staff Reporters 11/23/2001 The Wall Street Journal Europe=20 4 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Even as it reiterated its intention to purchase Enron Corp., Dynegy Inc. is= coming under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from the mult= i-billion-dollar deal.=20 The pressure is coming from the continuing slide in the price of Enron shar= es and the mounting financial problems at the Houston energy-trading compan= y, the biggest marketer of electricity and natural gas in the U.S. In the p= ast month, Enron has taken a $1 billion (1.1 billion euros) write-off of as= sets, restated downward the past several years of earnings and taken a $1.2= billion reduction in shareholder equity. The problems owe largely to deali= ngs Enron had with private partnerships run by some of its own executives n= ow under investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In d= ocuments filed with the SEC on Monday, Enron disclosed hundreds of millions= of potential additional write-offs as well as the possibility that its wea= kening financial condition could force it to repay more than $2 billion in = loans by the end of the year. On the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday, Enron shares were down 28% at $5.= 01 each, after having dropped some 23% on Tuesday. There was no trading Thu= rsday. More than 115 million shares changed hands Wednesday, more than four= times the volume of any other Big Board stock. Enron's bonds also fell, tr= aders said.=20 The turmoil spilled over to Dynegy's shares, which were also among the most= actively traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Dynegy shares were at $39.= 76 each on Wednesday, down $1.94.=20 Dynegy Chairman and Chief Executive Chuck Watson said his company was worki= ng ""to accelerate the regulatory approvals required to complete the merger = in accordance with the previously announced agreement"" though it continued = doing due diligence review on Enron. Under the merger agreement, Dynegy has= opportunities to renegotiate or walk away from the deal if Enron's financi= al and legal problems become severe enough.=20 Dynegy officials didn't return calls seeking comment. To consummate the dea= l, two-thirds of Dynegy shareholders and a majority of Enron shareholders w= ould have to give their approval. No dates for those votes have been set.= =20 The merger agreement, announced Nov. 9, calls for Dynegy to exchange 0.2685= of its shares for each of Enron's roughly 850 million fully diluted shares= , giving the purchase a value of about $9 billion at Dynegy's current stock= price.=20 However, from a price point of view, the deal is looking ever less attracti= ve to Dynegy.=20 On the day of the merger announcement, Enron shares were trading at about $= 8.63 a share, or about 83% of the purchase price under the exchange ratio. = As of Wednesday, Enron's market price was only about 47% of the merger-form= ula price.=20 Such a sharp deterioration is unusual following a merger announcement, when= the stock price of the company being acquired generally begins trading rel= atively close to the offering price.=20 Sentiment among Wall Street analysts is also turning against the merger. In= itially, many analysts lauded the merger as a move that would rescue Enron = and provide a major boost to Dynegy. Dynegy and Enron executives have predi= cted that the merger, which is supposed to be completed late next year, wou= ld significantly and immediately increase Dynegy's earnings.=20 Now analysts are challenging that assumption. Ron Barone, managing director= at UBS Warburg LLC, said that because of Enron's financial problems a comb= ined company would actually have lower earnings next year than Dynegy would= have by itself. Mr. Barone said a ""likely scenario"" is that the merger for= mula will be renegotiated sharply lower to about 0.15 Dynegy shares for eac= h Enron share.=20 Such a move wouldn't be without precedent. According to a person familiar w= ith the merger negotiations, Dynegy reduced the exchange formula at least o= nce prior to the Nov. 9 announcement because of Enron's rapidly sinking sto= ck price, which at the beginning of this year was above $80 a share.=20 In perhaps the most significant sign of the turning tide on Wall Street, Go= ldman Sachs analyst David Fleischer lowered his ratings on Enron and Dynegy= . A longtime Enron fan, Mr. Fleischer issued a report expressing doubts tha= t the merger would help Dynegy's earnings and whether Enron could ""recover = the significant business that has been lost"" in its energy trading operatio= ns. ""The Enron machine continues to sputter,"" wrote Mr. Fleischer.=20 Some observers say that if Dynegy walked away from the deal or tried to sig= nificantly renegotiate the terms, Enron might be pushed into bankruptcy. Wi= thout the Dynegy acquisition and continued support from its bankers and cus= tomers, an Enron request for bankruptcy protection from creditors ""is highl= y possible,"" said Ralph Pellecchia, a senior director at Fitch, a credit-ra= tings agency. On Wednesday, Fitch maintained its credit rating on Enron at = just one notch above noninvestment grade, or ""junk"" status. But Fitch also = said that Enron's trading partners had made ""significant cash collateral ca= lls"" in recent days that are ""well in excess of previous expectations,"" con= tributing to liquidity pressures.=20 Among the advisers Enron has hired during its current crisis is the law fir= m of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, which has a specialty in bankruptcy and corpor= ate restructuring. One energy trader said Wednesday that some colleagues ha= d even started a betting pool about the timing of a possible Enron bankrupt= cy filing. But he quickly added that he had no knowledge that the company h= as contemplated such a step.=20 Asked about a possible bankruptcy filing, an Enron spokeswoman said the com= pany expects the Dynegy deal to go through and therefore doesn't expect to = have to look at alternatives to the merger. Since the merger announcement, = Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay has said that his company had alternatives to th= e Dynegy deal, but he has declined to identify them.=20 ---=20 Thaddeus Herrick in Houston contributed to this article. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron Europe carries on trading. By ANDREW TAYLOR, UTILITIES CORRESPONDENT. 11/23/2001 Financial Times - FT.com=20 (c) 2001 Financial Times Limited . All Rights Reserved=20 The screens in front of energy traders at Enron's London headquarters are s= till glowing, even if they are doing much less business following the US gr= oup's financial woes.=20 The Belgravia offices house Europe's biggest electricity trader, which acco= unts for about a fifth of all European power contracts, worth roughly GBP70= bn ($99bn) last year in UK, Nordic and other European markets. Fears over Enron's credit rating have prompted a sharp fall in its European= electricity trading. Nonetheless, some companies which had previously with= drawn from buying and selling power with Enron have resumed trading with it= in the short-term market.=20 Few want to risk trading further than a week or two ahead, however, given c= ontinuing doubts over the company's finances. Whether Enron can survive dep= ends on the commitment of Dynegy, the rival US energy group, to its $9bn re= scue takeover announced two weeks ago.=20 John Sherriff, president and chief executive of Enron Europe, was anxious o= n Thursday to show that it was still ""business as usual"" for his energy tra= ders.=20 He estimates they are transacting about 70 per cent of the number of contra= cts they would normally expect, but only about 40 per cent by volume. Rival= traders believe volumes may have fallen much further.=20 Contracts ranging from a day ahead to many years hence are used as a hedge = to protect generators and retailers from risks of sudden price changes.=20 As financial instruments they are traded many times over. As a result, the = total value of the transactions is much higher than the cost of the actual = electricity delivered. However, the transactions play an increasingly impor= tant role in oiling competitive electricity markets.=20 Rival European power companies and traders are anxious that Enron should no= t fail.=20 Brian Senior, director of trading and asset management at Innogy, the UK ar= m of the demerged National Power, said recent transactions had shown there = was sufficient liquidity in European markets to cope if Enron disappeared.= =20 Traders were more concerned that Enron might not be able to honour existing= long-term contracts. ""This could have a domino effect, putting pressure on= other companies,"" said Mr Senior.=20 US power companies failed in similar circumstances after the Ohio-based Fed= eral Energy defaulted on power contracts in 1998, he said.=20 Martin Stanley, president of European energy trading for TXU, another large= US energy group, said: ""We are watching the situation carefully and would = want to do nothing to add to Enron's problems by making unhelpful comments = about their current position.""=20 Mr Sherriff said: ""Counter-parties are generally being very supportive.""=20 Innogy said it had resumed limited trading with the US group but was ""watch= ing the situation carefully"". TXU said: ""We are still trading with Enron in= the short-term market but less than we were.""=20 The Nordic market is one of the most active for power trading. US groups su= ch as Enron, TXU and Dynegy have helped to expand the UK market, while Enro= n has a strong base in Germany.=20 (c) Copyright Financial Times Group.=20 http://www.ft.com. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 What's News Business and Finance Business and Finance 11/23/2001 The Wall Street Journal=20 A1 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 DYNEGY IS COMING under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from= its deal to acquire Enron, due to the slide in the price of Enron shares a= nd the mounting financial problems at the energy-trading company. Separatel= y, Enron has been sued by members of its employee-retirement plan, which ha= s suffered losses because of Enron's plunging stock price. In trading Wedne= sday, Enron shares tumbled 28% to $5.01.=20 --- The economy could be declared officially in recession as early as today. Th= e move comes amid signs that the recession already may be bottoming out, wi= th initial jobless claims declining.=20 ---=20 Norway offered to cut its oil production, becoming the latest independent e= xporter to succumb to OPEC's wishes in an effort to prop up world oil price= s.=20 ---=20 WMC rejected a $6 billion takeover bid from Alcoa. The Australian mining co= mpany said it plans to spin off part of the firm in hopes of fetching a hig= her price.=20 ---=20 Retail Brand is set to buy Brooks Brothers from Marks & Spencer for about $= 225 million, less than a third of what the U.K. firm paid in 1988 for the m= en's retailer.=20 ---=20 The FDA approved Lilly's drug Xigris to treat septic infections, a medicine= Wall Street believes could produce sales of more than $1 billion annually.= =20 ---=20 Argentina extended by one week a deadline for institutional investors to te= nder their holdings in a giant debt swap.=20 ---=20 UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui announced a combined $24 billion in write-offs, as = investors pressure Japanese banks to purge their balance sheets of bad loan= s.=20 ---=20 Archer-Daniels, Cargill and Riceland agreed to sell about $25 million of fa= rm goods to Cuba, the first commercial food deal by the U.S. and Havana in = 40 years.=20 ---=20 Microsoft's general counsel said he plans to retire at the end of the fisca= l year. William Neukom will be succeeded by Brad Smith, deputy general coun= sel.=20 ---=20 Goldman Sachs could slash as many as 1,000 jobs due to the Wall Street slum= p, a Merrill Lynch analyst said.=20 ---=20 CIBC agreed to pay at least $297.8 million to acquire Merrill's Canadian br= okerage and asset-management operations.=20 ---=20 NTT reported a $2.13 billion loss for its fiscal first half, due to the Jap= anese company's losses on overseas investments and domestic restructuring c= osts.=20 ---=20 South Korea's economy grew by 1.8% in the third quarter, showing a surprisi= ng resilience during the global slump.=20 ---=20 CSX tentatively settled litigation from a 1987 chemical-car fire that had l= ed to an initial $2.5 billion judgment against the firm.=20 ---=20 Markets --=20 Stocks: NYSE vol. 1,021,074,890 shares, Nasdaq vol. 1,556,321,162. Dow Jone= s industrials 9834.68, off 66.70; Nasdaq 1875.05, off 5.46; S&P 500 index 1= 137.03, off 5.63.=20 Bonds:(2pm) 10-yr Treas off 25/32, yld 4.954%; 30-yr Treas off 21/32, yld 5= .351%.=20 Commodities: Oil futures $18.96 a barrel, off $0.19; Dow Jones-AIG futures = index 89.862, off 0.069; DJ spot index 96.62, up 0.42.=20 Dollar: 123.08 yen, up 0.56; 2.2246 marks, up 0.0092; euro 87.92 cents, off= 0.37. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron Faces Suits by 401(k) Plan Participants By Theo Francis and Ellen Schultz Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal 11/23/2001 The Wall Street Journal=20 C1 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Enron Corp., the embattled Houston energy and trading company, has been sue= d by members of its employee-retirement plan, which has suffered losses bec= ause of Enron's plummeting stock price.=20 Two separate lawsuits, filed in federal court in Houston, allege Enron misl= ed participants in its 401(k) retirement plan about the risks of investing = in the company's shares and note that the company forced the employees to r= emain invested in its stock even as the shares fell. Amid growing disclosur= es of financial problems in recent weeks, the company ""locked down"" the ret= irement plan from Oct. 17 to Nov. 19 to make administrative changes, which = prevented employees from selling Enron shares as the share price collapsed. Enron, which recently agreed to be acquired by Dynegy Inc., Houston, becaus= e of mounting financial problems, has seen its stock price fall to $5.01 on= Wednesday from a peak of nearly $90 a share last year. The decline has bee= n costly to participants in Enron's retirement plan because more than 60% o= f the 401(k) assets were invested in Enron shares at the end of last year, = according to one of the suits.=20 The first suit was filed Nov. 13 on behalf of plan participants by Campbell= Harrison & Wright LLP, a Houston law firm, and the second was filed Tuesda= y by Seattle-based Hagens Berman LLP. Both seek class-action certification.= =20 Enron said its corporate policy is not to comment on pending lawsuits. A sp= okeswoman also said the company's 401(k) plan offers participants 18 invest= ment choices, one of which is company stock.=20 The company's stock has fallen amid mounting losses and disclosures that it= had extensive off-balance-sheet dealings with a web of partnerships headed= by former company officials. The Securities and Exchange Commission has la= unched a formal investigation into the company's accounting, and Enron has = said it will restate years of financial information.=20 The suits against Enron are the latest of a series of suits filed against c= ompanies over losses in the company-stock portion of their 401(k) plans. Th= e suits allege the plan trustees breached their fiduciary duties by continu= ing to offer company stock, even after they became aware of serious busines= s problems that would hurt the stock price. All the suits are pending.=20 As with most of these companies, Enron matches employee contributions to th= e 401(k) with shares of Enron stock, and also offers Enron stock as an inve= stment choice, in addition to a variety of mutual funds. About $1.3 billion= of the plan's $2.1 billion in assets was invested in Enron shares at the e= nd of 2000, according to the suit filed by Campbell Harrison.=20 Pamela Tittle, a participant in the 401(k) plan who worked in the finance d= epartment and a named plaintiff in the Enron suit filed by Campbell Harriso= n & Wright, had roughly 2,000 shares of Enron stock in her retirement accou= nt and has suffered losses of about $140,000 as a result of the stock's dec= line. The suit alleges that the trustees of the Enron 401(k) plan violated = their fiduciary duties by not informing plan participants that the company = stock was in peril.=20 The suit filed by Hagens Berman, also alleges that the company failed to wa= rn participants about risks of remaining invested in Enron stock. In additi= on, it accuses Enron of systematically misrepresenting its financial result= s since 1998 in connection with the partnerships under investigation by the= SEC.=20 Roy E. Rinard, a lineman for Enron in Oregon who is a named plaintiff in th= e suit filed by Hagens Berman, has seen the value of his retirement plan fa= ll to $70,000 from $470,000, largely as a result of the decline in Enron's = stock. ""I feel like I have been betrayed,"" Mr. Rinard said in press release= issued by his lawyers. ""I lost my savings, my plans for the future, everyt= hing.""=20 Under federal pension law, companies are allowed to offer their own stock i= n retirement plans, and are allowed to force employees to hold onto the sto= ck. Enron doesn't let employees diversify out of shares they receive as mat= ching contributions to the 401(k) plan until age 50.=20 However, plan trustees are supposed to operate the plan in the best interes= ts of the participants, which includes choosing prudent investments. Genera= lly, to prove that the plan's administrators breached their fiduciary dutie= s, employees must show that the trustees knew the stock was a bad investmen= t. This presents a high hurdle, so it is not surprising that prior lawsuits= over losses in company stock in 401(k) plans have generally come in the wa= ke of allegations of accounting irregularities.=20 Lynn Sarko, one of Ms. Tittle's attorneys with Seattle's Keller Rohrback LL= P, is also co-lead counsel in a similar lawsuit against Lucent Technologies= Inc., Murray Hill, N.J. Another firm representing Ms. Tittle is Dalton Got= to Samson & Kilgard PLC, which is lead counsel in a similar suit against Ik= on Office Solutions Inc., Malvern, Pa. The two law firms are representing M= s. Tittle with Campbell Harrison & Wright.=20 The suits against Lucent and Ikon, like the suit against Enron, allege that= then-current plan trustees kept offering company stock in the plan despite= knowing of serious business problems that would hurt the stock price. Repr= esentatives for Ikon and Lucent say their companies didn't require employee= s to invest in the company stock, and educated employees about the need for= diversification.=20 The suit in which Mr. Rinard is plaintiff notes that on Oct. 17, a day afte= r Enron announced the company was taking a nonrecurring charge totaling $1.= 01 billion in the third quarter, Enron ""locked down"" the 401(k) plan's asse= ts, preventing participants from selling Enron shares. (A ""lock-down"" occur= s when a retirement plan is transferred from one administrator to another, = and generally lasts several weeks, during which time participants can't mak= e changes in their investment choices).=20 The lock-down was lifted on Nov. 19. In the interim, on Nov. 8, Enron annou= nced it would be forced to restate downward its reported financial results = from 1997 through 2000. By the time the lock-down was lifted, as a result o= f all the negative news the shares had fallen to below $9 a share from $32.= 20 on Oct. 17, when the lockup started, Hagens Berman attorney Karl Barth s= aid.=20 ""They were locked into it right when Enron knew it was going to be announci= ng some really bad news,"" Mr. Barth said. ""Mr. Rinard's looking at having n= o retirement savings now. It's a horrible thing to have to start over in yo= 
We've prepared the attached draft press release for possible issuance Monday in conjunction with the 10Q filing.  Wilmer Cutler has reviewed the release, but they do not want to include a quote.  Please let me know your views and if you have any changes. Thank you. Karen 713-853-9757 
Enron taps credit line; stock slides 10/27/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. HOUSTON (AP) - After Enron Corp. tapped into more than $3 billion in credit in an effort to boost confidence of investors and customers, stock prices dropped. Enron Corp.'s stock price hit its lowest point in more than five years Friday. Shares fell 95 cents on Friday to $15.40, a level not seen since 1995, as analysts continued to muddle through a complicated series of bookkeeping issues revealed after the company's earnings announcement earlier this month. The stock is down more than 50 percent in two weeks, and the company lost almost $14 billion in market value. Late this week the company decided to convert $3 billion in revolving credit it has through various banks into cash. The company put about $1.1 billion in the bank in an effort to reassure business partners and investors of its liquidity and is using the $2.2 billion balance to begin an orderly repurchase of a certain kind of short-term corporate IOU known as commercial paper. ""Nothing spells confidence quite like cash, which is what we want investors to understand,"" said Enron spokesman Mark Palmer of the $1.1 billion banked this week. 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Attached for your information is a memo that we plan to send out to employees worldwide Monday afternoon or Tuesday morning discussing the Policy Committee's cost saving recommendations.  To the extent there are unique aspects of these policies as they apply to your business unit, please follow up with a further communication to your employees.  We will send you a list of frequently asked questions that deal with systems issues. Thank you. Karen 
Attached is the most recent press release, as of last night.  We held off circulating because we anticipated an updated draft but have not yet received one so wanted you to have an opportunity to review what we have.  Please let me or Mark Palmer know if you have any comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
USA: UPDATE 2-SoCal Edison in default, bankruptcy looms. By Jonathan Stempel 01/16/2001 Reuters English News Service (C) Reuters Limited 2001. NEW YORK, Jan 16 (Reuters) - In a move that escalates the California power crisis, embattled California utility Southern California Edison said on Tuesday it has suspended at least $596 million of payments to creditors, moving it closer to a possible bankruptcy filing. SoCal Edison and No. 1 rival Pacific Gas and Electric Co., a unit of San Francisco-based PG&E Corp., have run up billions of dollars of debt this year because they are subject to a rate freeze and have been unable to pass on their skyrocketing wholesale power costs to consumers. In mirror filings on Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the state's No. 2 utility and its parent, Rosemead, Calif.-based Edison International, said that to conserve cash SoCal Edison has ""temporarily suspended"" three payments due Tuesday. These payments include $230 million of principal and interest on its 5.875 percent notes, $215 million to the California Power Exchange, and $151 
USA: UPDATE 2-SoCal Edison in default, bankruptcy looms. By Jonathan Stempel 01/16/2001 Reuters English News Service (C) Reuters Limited 2001. NEW YORK, Jan 16 (Reuters) - In a move that escalates the California power crisis, embattled California utility Southern California Edison said on Tuesday it has suspended at least $596 million of payments to creditors, moving it closer to a possible bankruptcy filing. SoCal Edison and No. 1 rival Pacific Gas and Electric Co., a unit of San Francisco-based PG&E Corp., have run up billions of dollars of debt this year because they are subject to a rate freeze and have been unable to pass on their skyrocketing wholesale power costs to consumers. In mirror filings on Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the state's No. 2 utility and its parent, Rosemead, Calif.-based Edison International, said that to conserve cash SoCal Edison has ""temporarily suspended"" three payments due Tuesday. These payments include $230 million of principal and interest on its 5.875 percent notes, $215 million to the California Power Exchange, and $151 
We have received the following questions from the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg.  We will not necessarily respond, but would you please provide answers and let me know your view whether or not we should respond to the following: Have you had any further contact from Fitch? (DeSpain) Has there been a change in status to the SEC inquiry?  Which office is handling - Fort Worth? (Rogers) Have you been contacted by the Federal Reserve or any other agency conducting an investigation? (Rogers) Have you been in contact with or retained bankruptcy counsel? (Haedicke) Have you been contacted about a takeover - Royal Dutch, GE? Have you retained Goldman Sachs to advise you on credit rating, financing issues or to find a strategic partner?  Will they receive an equity stake to help Enron get out of its current situation?  (Bowen) These reporters are on deadline tonight, so let me know as soon as possible. Thank you. Karen 
Attached is the most recent press release, as of last night.  We held off circulating because we anticipated an updated draft but have not yet received one so wanted you to have an opportunity to review what we have.  Please let me or Mark Palmer know if you have any comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
FYI, the attached press release announcing a fiber exchange is scheduled to be issued tomorrow by Qwest, however EBS is not named in the release (due to sensitivities with the pending USWest deal).  Under the terms of the exchange,  we gave them access on our Denver-to-Dallas route and we received New Orleans to Jacksonville via Tallahassee; Jacksonville to Charlotte; and Tallahassee to Louisville via Atlanta and Nashville. If you have any questions, please contact me. Thanks. kd 
Karen, Here's the Qwest release that I just left word on your voicemail about. While it doesn't mention Enron, the 1000 mile route spoken to was acquired in a fiber exchange with Enron.  Let's discuss. thx, Kris Caldwell Enron Communications, Inc. Public Relations Manager (503) 886-0269 
FYI, John Bryson is on the board of the LA Times. Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/10/2000 02:55 PM 
Following is an excerpt from a LA Times article illustrating a different, more negative point of view concerning deregulation compared to earlier articles I had sent. The whole article is attached at the bottom. Overconfident lawmakers even inserted as Section 330A of the Public Utilities Code: ""It is the intent of the Legislature that a cumulative rate reduction of at least 20% be achieved not later than April 1, 2002, for residential and small commercial customers from the rates 
We need to be careful how we position this.  I'm concerned that this may be perceived as Enron re-entering the residential market -- even though we're proposing to supply SDG&E rather than direct end-use customers.  How does this compare to the other eight offers SDG&E has received? James D Steffes@EES 08/17/2000 01:38 PM 
Attached is a write-up of a presentation on making a ""public"" offer in SDG&E's territory for supplying their residential load. If we are to do this, we need to probably have something ready by late August. Any comments? 
Just in case you need this for future reference.  I played with it and gave it a simple look.  (You can always delete if you don't like it.) mm 
fyi -- great job! 
Karen, Here is a copy of the story, which is unfortunately quite a bit shorter. Thank you both for your help, and please give a special thanks to Mr. Kean for his extremely helpful comments and analogies. Sincerely, Vibeke Laroi (See attached file: fair power grid.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - fair power grid.doc 
FYI... 
fyi 
fyi 
FYI, Reuters crossed the attached article on Y2K and highlighted Enron's worst case scenario information from our SEC filing .  We can probably expect more articles like this during December.  Our reactive media statement on Enron's 10K remains the same, but the media is likely to run our filing language, as they are looking for ""doomsday"" quotes (I spoke to the Reuters reporter and explained that we complied with the SEC requirements and the worst case scenario was unlikely, yet the reporter still ran 10K quotes rather than a corporate response to the filing.) If you have any questions, please call me. Thanks. Karen, x39757 
FYI - may generate some interest from the media!! 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
Calif. power resources will be 3,752 Mw short in 2001 By David Feliciano, BridgeNews Scottsdale, Ariz.--Dec. 7--California resources and reserves for electricity will be 3,752 megawatts short of the anticipated load in 2001, California Independent System Operator (ISO) President and CEO Terry Winter said Thursday at the annual Western Systems Coordinating Council meeting. ""I'm concerned about supply,"" Winter said. ""Without sufficient supply, markets will set socially and politically 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Jeannie drafted this op-ed in response to the situation in the California market.  Please let me know if you'd like to proceed with placement in a CA newspaper.  If so, we need to decide who should author and what is the ideal placement.  thx. kd 
Karen, I've incorporated your suggestions. Still need to know current state mw capacity and no. of peaking mw approved for next summer. Hope Jeff can help or direct me to someone who can. Sorry for this AOL transmission -- the system is running really slow. Take care, Jeannie - Electricity Op Ed.doc 
Attached is the PR plan prepared by Marathon for December and 1Q01.   I've also attached the draft CEO email specified in the plan and the target list of key industrial and technology leaders in California.   Please review the plan and preliminary messages.  Keep in mind that as the holidays are approaching rapidly, we need to move quickly to begin implementing the PR plan.  Please let me know by Friday, Dec. 15 if you have any comments, concerns or suggestions. Thank you. Karen 
Enron: ISO Credit Problems Are Those Of Calif Utilities Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 12/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Mark Golden NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The credit problems of the California Independent System Operator reflect the credit problems of the state's three investor-owned utilities, Enron Corp. (ENE) chief of staff Steven Kean said Wednesday. ""We have expressed some concerns about the utilities' creditworthiness,"" Kean said. ""They wouldn't have this credit issue if they had a government 
FYI, the attached press release announcing a fiber exchange is scheduled to be issued tomorrow by Qwest, however EBS is not named in the release (due to sensitivities with the pending USWest deal).  Under the terms of the exchange,  we gave them access on our Denver-to-Dallas route and we received New Orleans to Jacksonville via Tallahassee; Jacksonville to Charlotte; and Tallahassee to Louisville via Atlanta and Nashville. If you have any questions, please contact me. Thanks. kd 
Karen, Here's the Qwest release that I just left word on your voicemail about. While it doesn't mention Enron, the 1000 mile route spoken to was acquired in a fiber exchange with Enron.  Let's discuss. thx, Kris Caldwell Enron Communications, Inc. Public Relations Manager (503) 886-0269 
Attached is a new draft of the press release, which is scheduled to be released before the opening of the market tomorrow morning.  Please let me know tonight if you have any additional changes. Thank you. Karen 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Thought you'd get a kick out of this (especially after our recent ""hold music"" activity!) Try this.   It's for real.   The following is the customer service number for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 1-800-578-7453 Dial the number and listen to their greeting message, until the point when you are requested to choose an extension, and then you can hang up. The greeting message is priceless though, and worth the 
Steve -- here's the schedule for Thursday: 8-9 a.m. CEO Meeting at Sun w/ Northern California CEOs - Santa Clara 3:30 p.m. Meeting w/ Mayor Riordan - LA 4:15 p.m. Meeting w/ other LA CEOs I've attached the invitations for both meetings, as well as the invitation lists (Riordan has added some names to the LA list).  Given the extensive logistics, I'm planning on going with Ken -- do you think Jeff Dasovich should come also?  Jeff and I are working on a handout presentation (about 10-15 power point slides) for Ken to use during the meeting. What do you think about sending the information Jeff prepared for McNealy to the CEOs in advance of the meeting so that they have something to think about before they arrive for the discussion? Ken needs to meet with the UC Chancellor while he's in LA (probably around lunchtime), but are there any other meetings you think he should have while he's in California? For a briefing package, I'm putting together info (bios, company info) on all the CEOs who will be attending the meetings.  Is there anything else we need to prepare for Ken? Hurry back -- we miss you! kd 
Eric -- Attached is the letter and invitation list for the meeting on Thursday with the Mayor and Enron Chairman Ken Lay.  We will fax the invitations as soon as I  hear Monday morning from Kevin Sharer's office whether he is amenable to hosting the meeting.  I do not have contact information for Selim Zihlka, so if you could call or email me with that information, I'll make sure he receives an invitation. Please call me if you have any questions. Thank you for your assistance with this meeting. Regards, Karen Denne Vice President Public Relations Enron Corp. 713-853-9757 - work 713-853-6790 - fax 713-907-7906 - cell 281-861-7017 - home 
fyi... 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3456) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company Receives Court Approval of Second-Day Motions SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 9, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Utility Granted Authority to Continue Efforts to Secure Natural Gas Supplies, Use Cash Collateral for Normal Business Operations Pacific Gas and Electric Company today received approval from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California, of various second-day motions. These orders will enable Pacific Gas and Electric Company to continue to fulfill post-petition obligations to suppliers and other creditors without disruption, and so that all parties' interests are considered, and treated fairly. The goal of these early proceedings is to assure stability of the company, in accordance with bankruptcy law. The court granted the utility the authority to continue to use its natural gas revenues to secure future supplies, hopefully ensuring that there will be no disruption of service for millions of natural gas customers. The court also authorized interim use of cash collateral in which mortgage bondholders have a beneficial interest, and scheduled and established deadlines relating to a final hearing on the continued use of cash collateral. Also today, Pacific Gas and Electric Company asked the Court to allow at least a 60 day suspension of a requirement approved by the CPUC on March 27, that would force PG&amp;E to restate all its regulatory books and accounts back to Jan. 1, 1998 in order to prolong the current electric rate freeze and make it appear that PG&amp;E has never incurred any operating losses on its wholesale power costs since the energy crisis began. Under the CPUC order, PG&amp;E is required to file tariffs and reports by Wednesday, April 11, making the accounting changes and restating its books. PG&amp;E believes the CPUC accounting and ratemaking change is intended to interfere with the rights of creditors and shareholders to recover over $8.9 billion in undercollected power costs that the company has accrued since last summer. Under federal bankruptcy law, PG&amp;E, as a ""debtor in possession,"" generally has an additional 60 days to comply with various deadlines issued by other agencies, and actions by those agencies which would interfere with creditors rights and the value of PG&amp;E's assets cannot be implemented without approval of the bankruptcy judge. At the Court's request, Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the CPUC are currently negotiating on an extension of this filing requirement, and is hopeful that an agreed upon solution can be reached in a timely manner. CONTACT: Pacific Gas and Electric Company |              News Department, 415/973-5930 
Here's Calpine's announcement, fyi... PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market /FROM PR NEWSWIRE SAN FRANCISCO  415-543-7800/ TO BUSINESS AND ENERGY EDITORS: PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market SAN JOSE, Calif., April 9 /PRNewswire/ -- In response to Pacific Gas and Electric Company's (PG&E) April 6th Chapter 11 filing, Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN), the San Jose, Calif.-based independent power company, stated it is confident that PG&E, through a successful reorganization, will be able to pay Calpine's Qualifying Facility (QF) subsidiaries for all past due power sales, in addition to electricity deliveries made on a going-forward basis. CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES SELL POWER TO PG&E UNDER THE TERMS OF LONG-TERM QF CONTRACTS AT ELEVEN FACILITIES, REPRESENTING NEARLY 600 MEGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY FOR NORTHERN CALIFORNIA POWER CUSTOMERS.  AS OF MARCH 31, 2001, CALPINE HAS RECORDED APPROXIMATELY $267 MILLION IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WITH PG&E, PLUS A $68 MILLION NOTE RECEIVABLE NOT YET DUE AND PAYABLE.  THE COMPANY'S REMAINING CALIFORNIA OPERATIONS, TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 700 MEGAWATTS OF CAPACITY, PROVIDE ELECTRICITY TO MUNICIPALITIES AND OTHER CREDITWORTHY THIRD PARTIES. CALPINE'S QF FACILITIES ARE PART OF A 9,000-MEGAWATT QF SUPPLY THAT PROVIDE CALIFORNIA CUSTOMERS WITH A LONG-TERM SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY AT PRICES SIGNIFICANTLY BELOW CURRENT WHOLESALE PRICES.  THIS CRITICAL POWER SUPPLY REPRESENTS APPROXIMATELY 33 PERCENT OF THE STATE'S POWER DEMAND.  WITHOUT THESE CONTRACTS IN PLACE FOR THIS SUMMER, CALIFORNIA FACES THE PROSPECT OF MORE BLACKOUTS AND HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN INCREASED COSTS. FOR THESE QF CONTRACTS TO CONTINUE, PG&E MUST ASSUME THE CONTRACTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.  IN ORDER TO ASSUME THESE CONTRACTS, PG&E WILL BE REQUIRED TO CURE ALL OUTSTANDING DEFAULTS, INCLUDING PAYING ALL PAST DUE AMOUNTS.  IF PG&E FAILS TO ASSUME THE CONTRACTS, CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES WILL BE ABLE TO SELL POWER ON THE OPEN MARKET AND SEEK DAMAGES FROM PG&E FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT THROUGH THE BANKRUPTCY CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS. ""As the state's leading developer of new electric generating facilities, 
Steve/Rick/Paul -- In case Bev didn't mention the following to you, I thought you'd like to see the great feedback we got on Sue's participation in the VICA Energy Summit.  She really stepped up when we found out at the last minute that Enron didn't have a representative -- and agreed to fly to LA and speak on 12 hours notice.  A consummate team player -- kudos, Sue!  kd 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
BusinessWeek is writing a story for its eBiz insert in mid-May about how Enron is using the Internet and e-commerce to again transform its businesses.  Wendy Zellner, who works out of the magazine's Dallas bureau, will be in Houston on Tuesday and Wednesday to conduct interviews. The following are the interview topics and schedule: Tuesday, May 2 10 a.m. - Shareholder meeting 3:30 p.m. - Louise Kitchen How was EnronOnline conceived and created? What did you and your group have to do to get EOL up and running? Did it really take only six months? How much did it cost to develop? How does EOL change Enron's existing business? Does it let you or your customers do anything that they couldn't do before? How much market share are you gaining and from whom? How much incremental revenue/profits will you ultimately get from EOL? How long does a trade take now vs. the old system? Does the Net make any new products possible? How does EOL compare to other electronic exchanges being created (such as the Dynegy/Williams/eSpeed venture)? What savings, back office and otherwise, do you get from going online? Wednesday, May 3 1:30 p.m. - Joe Hirko Explain the technicalities of setting up this business. What kind of technology did you have to invest in to make this happen? How big is the market opportunity, how fast-growing, how profitable? What advantages/disadvantages does Enron have vs. competitors? What are the potential roadblocks to creating a truly liquid market for trading bandwidth? Why is it important to have a network and the content delivery services along with the trading? How much will you invest this year?  Next year? (note: we've given Wendy the names and numbers of customers -- Verio, US West, Atomfilms) 3:30 p.m. - Jeff Skilling How is Enron using the Internet overseas to reach new customers more quickly? Germany example -- setting up web site to reach local distribution companies quickly -- How many customers has it helped you sign up and in what time period?  How long would that have taken under the old regime? Where else are you using the Internet abroad and with what results? What kinds of products might go through EOL in the future? What are the characteristics of the things you'll consider? In all areas, how does Enron stack up to the competition when it comes to using the Internet? How soon will EOL have competition? How long-lasting will your first-mover advantage be? Is the Internet changing in any significant way any other internal processes at Enron - i.e. recruiting, purchasing, managing your plants or pipelines? 4:30 p.m. - Sean Holmes How are you using the Internet to serve the big customers that you're getting in the retail energy business? How is that affecting costs? Communication time? Mark Palmer or I will bring Wendy to your office for the interview.  If you have any questions, please let me know. Thank you for your assistance. Karen Denne 
fyi 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Mark/Steve -- Meredith has made great progress working w/ Kekst on updating Enron descriptions in all the key databases -- the project is nearly done!  kd 
As tomorrow is my last day in the office before the ""Big Day"" I wanted to provide both of you with an update as to where we stand on the Online Database Audit. TAB C (Baseline) -- Baseline has updated its Business Overview of Enron Corp. and the new version has been approved by Mark Palmer. TAB E (CorpTech/OneSource) -- The listing questionnaire was faxed to Meredith last week to be updated and faxed directly back to CorpTech. TAB F (DJ Interactive) -- The data in the DJ report comes from Hoover's.  I am currently working with Hoover's to update the Business Description in the DJ report. TAB G (D&B) -- An updated list of officers, directors, financials and the expanded business description has been sent to the update desk at D&B.  It will probably take at least 3 weeks for the D&B report to be updated. TAB H (Extel Company Report) -- Extel is now reporting updated financials for Enron Corp.  Extel is also in the process of updating the Activities and Management section of the report. TAB K (Hoover's) -- Hoover's is in the process of updating its list of Officers for Enron Corp. TAB M (Market Guide) -- Market Guide is in the process of changing the Company's name to Enron Corp. and is updating its Business Summary and list of Officers for the Company.  In addition, we could have Enron moved into the Oil & Gas Operations Industry of the Energy Sector within Market Guide. The peer group members of this new classification have been sent over to Enron.  Please let me know how you would like to proceed. TAB O (Multex) -- Multex is in the process of updating its Business Overview of Enron, which should include changing the size of Enron's assets to $33 billion and possibly including the Company's ranking within the Fortune 500. In addition, I am exploring if there is a more advantageous industry classification for Enron.  Enron is currently classified in the Basic Energy industry sector and its peer group is Major Pipeline Companies.  Dynegy's peer group is Major Oil & Gas Gathering & Marketing Companies -- perhaps this is a more appropriate classification for Enron.  Please let me know that you think. TAB R (Quicken)  -- Quicken obtains its data from Media General Financial Services.  I have spoken with an analyst at Media General and he has updated the Descriptor for Enron: ""Delivers physical commodities and financial and risk management services to customers; develops, constructs and operates energy facilities worldwide; produces electricity and natural gas; and is developing a network platform to facilitate on line business.""  The new descriptor should appear on Quicken.com within the next several days.  In addition, I am working with the analyst to develop a more appropriate Industry classification for Enron.  Media General currently classifies Enron as a Basic Materials Wholesale company. TAB S (Reuters MoneyNet) -- The data on this service is provided by Market Guide (TAB M). TAB T (Reuters Business Briefing) -- Reuters is in the process of updating the Activities section for Enron, which includes changing the Company's name to Enron Corp.; changing the IR contact to Mark Koenig; and updating the number of employees at the Company. TAB W (Value Line) -- Work in progress. I will give the both of you a call tomorrow to discuss the next steps of the project. Michael 
The attached press release announcing a gas sales agreement between Metgas and RCF was reviewed and approved in March, but the release was postponed. The GSA is expected to be signed next week, and we would like to issue the release in Mumbai.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by Monday, June 12. Thank you. kd 
Class Action Lawsuits Alleging Restraint of Trade and Unfair Business Practices Filed Against SoCal Gas, San Diego Gas & Electric, And El Paso Natural Gas LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18 /PRNewswire/  via NewsEdge Corporation  - Two related class action lawsuits have been filed in the California Superior Court in Los Angeles, against Southern California Gas Company, San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company, Sempra Energy (parent of the two utilities), El Paso Natural Gas Co., and other companies related to El Paso Natural Gas. The two lawsuits allege a conspiracy resulting in restraint of trade and unfair competition and unlawful business practices.  The complaints summarize the issue as follows: This action involves a massive conspiracy to eliminate competition in the newly deregulated energy industry that has resulted in endangering California's electrical system and threatening California's economy.  It is perhaps the largest gouging of energy consumers in American history. Southern California's current ""energy crisis"" is not simply the result of ever-increasing demand by a growing population for energy.  Rather, it is the direct result of a conspiracy among the natural gas industry's most powerful Southern California players to preserve and maintain the market dominance that they enjoyed for many years as monopolies subject to regulation.  When the artificial monopoly created by regulation was disassembled, those dominant companies took prompt and illegal action to ensure that they would not lose the benefits of their market power.  Their unlawful collusion has contributed significantly to the recent astronomical increases in the price of natural gas and electricity.  As a result, Southern California customers have had to pay billions of dollars extra for their natural gas and electric needs.  This lawsuit seeks to recover those damages. (Para. 1 and 2 of complaint.) ""In September of 1996, top executives of Southern California Gas Company (""SoCal Gas""), San Diego Gas &amp; Electric (""SDG&amp;E"") and El Paso Natural Gas Corporation (""EPNG"") met at the Embassy Suites Hotel, near Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.  Fearing a new era of open competition and lower prices, these latter day captains of industry gathered secretly to hatch a conspiracy to dominate the unregulated aspects of the natural gas and electricity markets.  At the meeting, these three companies, who together dominate the Southern California natural gas market, illegally agreed not to compete against each other in the Southern California and Baja California natural gas delivery markets.  They also conspired to prevent other pipelines from being built that would have competed against them and lowered natural gas prices in these markets.  The conspirators sought to eliminate competition, take advantage of electric deregulation, 
fyi 
FYI, from Kelly.  Stacy 
______________________ Marissa C. Womble Enron Broadband Services Office: 713-345-7582 Cell: 713-569-7859 Marissa_Womble@enron.net 
Jeff -- I'll be working on the PR activities for this issue.  I've made a few revisions to the draft  (approaches and messages).  Let's discuss later this morning. Thanks. kd 
Here's the draft with comments from Steve, Mark and Mona included.  If anyone has any others, please send them along.  This wil likely go to IEP Thursday or Friday. 
Rob -- This info is great.  For use w/ the media, we'll need to simplify, and it would be helpful to have specific examples of what a utility would pay and the overall result of a market with price caps, the current ""open"" market (under ISO regulation, buying from the PX) and a pure open market (using hedges to manage risk). thx. kd 
FYI, the Aug. 14 issue of Fortune is their retirement special, and Enron is one of ""10 stocks to last the decade.""  Awesome article. Check it out: 
see attached link for Saturday's LA Times article, ""Consumers Seek Repeal of Utility Deregulation"": 
Jim and Ken -- Attached is an article for eBiz (our biweekly online newsletter), which we are scheduled to launch at 7:30 a.m. Friday.  Kelly Kimberly has reviewed it, but has asked that you view the article as well.  Since only EBS employees received your memo about the restructuring -- and the rest of the employees did not receive any communication -- it is extremely important to provide information through this vehicle. Please let me know of your approval or if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
Attached is the latest draft Q&A document, which I've edited and attempted to organize into topics.  There are a number of questions that still need answers.  I've also attached a draft of the key messages.   Please let me know if you have any additions, comments or changes to either document by the end of the day Thursday. Thank you. Karen 
Ricardo -- Per your request, here is some general information about Enron that should be helpful in providing background materials for the Lay/Fox meeting. I've attached the corporate fact sheet, second quarter earnings analyst presentation, EBS profile and recent news articles about Enron.  Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks. Karen 713-853-9757 http://www.businessweek.com/2000/00_30/b3691034.htm?scriptFramed http://www.fortune.com/fortune/2000/08/14/pre.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/technology/2000/01/24/eco.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/fortune500/enr.html http://www.forbes.com/forbes/00/0724/6517145a3.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ 2000/00_20/b3681075.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ ebiz/0007/0713skilling.htm http://www.business2.com/content/magazine/indepth/2000/06/01/11888 http://www.forbes.com/tool/html/00/jul/0720/mu4.htm http://cbs.marketwatch.com/archive/20000410/news/current/diligence.htx?source= htx/http2_mw http://eeshou-etv02.ees.enron.com/moneyline/moneyline.ram 
The attached Q&A and release incorporates comments from the int'l business units, legal and HR.  Would you please review once more before routing to Ken, Jeff and Joe.  Mark, do you want to send it under your cover? Thanks! kd 
Attached is the PR plan prepared by Marathon for December and 1Q01.   I've also attached the draft CEO email specified in the plan and the target list of key industrial and technology leaders in California.   Please review the plan and preliminary messages.  Keep in mind that as the holidays are approaching rapidly, we need to move quickly to begin implementing the PR plan.  Please let me know by Friday, Dec. 15 if you have any comments, concerns or suggestions. Thank you. Karen 
fyi -- great job! 
Karen, Here is a copy of the story, which is unfortunately quite a bit shorter. Thank you both for your help, and please give a special thanks to Mr. Kean for his extremely helpful comments and analogies. Sincerely, Vibeke Laroi (See attached file: fair power grid.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - fair power grid.doc 
We need to be careful how we position this.  I'm concerned that this may be perceived as Enron re-entering the residential market -- even though we're proposing to supply SDG&E rather than direct end-use customers.  How does this compare to the other eight offers SDG&E has received? James D Steffes@EES 08/17/2000 01:38 PM 
Attached is a write-up of a presentation on making a ""public"" offer in SDG&E's territory for supplying their residential load. If we are to do this, we need to probably have something ready by late August. Any comments? 
Just in case you need this for future reference.  I played with it and gave it a simple look.  (You can always delete if you don't like it.) mm 
Calif. power resources will be 3,752 Mw short in 2001 By David Feliciano, BridgeNews Scottsdale, Ariz.--Dec. 7--California resources and reserves for electricity will be 3,752 megawatts short of the anticipated load in 2001, California Independent System Operator (ISO) President and CEO Terry Winter said Thursday at the annual Western Systems Coordinating Council meeting. ""I'm concerned about supply,"" Winter said. ""Without sufficient supply, markets will set socially and politically 
FYI, John Bryson is on the board of the LA Times. Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/10/2000 02:55 PM 
Following is an excerpt from a LA Times article illustrating a different, more negative point of view concerning deregulation compared to earlier articles I had sent. The whole article is attached at the bottom. Overconfident lawmakers even inserted as Section 330A of the Public Utilities Code: ""It is the intent of the Legislature that a cumulative rate reduction of at least 20% be achieved not later than April 1, 2002, for residential and small commercial customers from the rates 
The attached Q&A and release incorporates comments from the int'l business units, legal and HR.  Would you please review once more before routing to Ken, Jeff and Joe.  Mark, do you want to send it under your cover? Thanks! kd 
Ricardo -- Per your request, here is some general information about Enron that should be helpful in providing background materials for the Lay/Fox meeting. I've attached the corporate fact sheet, second quarter earnings analyst presentation, EBS profile and recent news articles about Enron.  Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks. Karen 713-853-9757 http://www.businessweek.com/2000/00_30/b3691034.htm?scriptFramed http://www.fortune.com/fortune/2000/08/14/pre.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/technology/2000/01/24/eco.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/fortune500/enr.html http://www.forbes.com/forbes/00/0724/6517145a3.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ 2000/00_20/b3681075.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ ebiz/0007/0713skilling.htm http://www.business2.com/content/magazine/indepth/2000/06/01/11888 http://www.forbes.com/tool/html/00/jul/0720/mu4.htm http://cbs.marketwatch.com/archive/20000410/news/current/diligence.htx?source= htx/http2_mw http://eeshou-etv02.ees.enron.com/moneyline/moneyline.ram 
Jeannie drafted this op-ed in response to the situation in the California market.  Please let me know if you'd like to proceed with placement in a CA newspaper.  If so, we need to decide who should author and what is the ideal placement.  thx. kd 
Karen, I've incorporated your suggestions. Still need to know current state mw capacity and no. of peaking mw approved for next summer. Hope Jeff can help or direct me to someone who can. Sorry for this AOL transmission -- the system is running really slow. Take care, Jeannie - Electricity Op Ed.doc 
Attached is the latest draft Q&A document, which I've edited and attempted to organize into topics.  There are a number of questions that still need answers.  I've also attached a draft of the key messages.   Please let me know if you have any additions, comments or changes to either document by the end of the day Thursday. Thank you. Karen 
see attached link for Saturday's LA Times article, ""Consumers Seek Repeal of Utility Deregulation"": 
FYI, the Aug. 14 issue of Fortune is their retirement special, and Enron is one of ""10 stocks to last the decade.""  Awesome article. Check it out: 
Rob -- This info is great.  For use w/ the media, we'll need to simplify, and it would be helpful to have specific examples of what a utility would pay and the overall result of a market with price caps, the current ""open"" market (under ISO regulation, buying from the PX) and a pure open market (using hedges to manage risk). thx. kd 
Jeff -- I'll be working on the PR activities for this issue.  I've made a few revisions to the draft  (approaches and messages).  Let's discuss later this morning. Thanks. kd 
Here's the draft with comments from Steve, Mark and Mona included.  If anyone has any others, please send them along.  This wil likely go to IEP Thursday or Friday. 
fyi 
FYI, from Kelly.  Stacy 
______________________ Marissa C. Womble Enron Broadband Services Office: 713-345-7582 Cell: 713-569-7859 Marissa_Womble@enron.net 
The attached press release announcing a gas sales agreement between Metgas and RCF was reviewed and approved in March, but the release was postponed. The GSA is expected to be signed next week, and we would like to issue the release in Mumbai.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by Monday, June 12. Thank you. kd 
Mark/Steve -- Meredith has made great progress working w/ Kekst on updating Enron descriptions in all the key databases -- the project is nearly done!  kd 
As tomorrow is my last day in the office before the ""Big Day"" I wanted to provide both of you with an update as to where we stand on the Online Database Audit. TAB C (Baseline) -- Baseline has updated its Business Overview of Enron Corp. and the new version has been approved by Mark Palmer. TAB E (CorpTech/OneSource) -- The listing questionnaire was faxed to Meredith last week to be updated and faxed directly back to CorpTech. TAB F (DJ Interactive) -- The data in the DJ report comes from Hoover's.  I am currently working with Hoover's to update the Business Description in the DJ report. TAB G (D&B) -- An updated list of officers, directors, financials and the expanded business description has been sent to the update desk at D&B.  It will probably take at least 3 weeks for the D&B report to be updated. TAB H (Extel Company Report) -- Extel is now reporting updated financials for Enron Corp.  Extel is also in the process of updating the Activities and Management section of the report. TAB K (Hoover's) -- Hoover's is in the process of updating its list of Officers for Enron Corp. TAB M (Market Guide) -- Market Guide is in the process of changing the Company's name to Enron Corp. and is updating its Business Summary and list of Officers for the Company.  In addition, we could have Enron moved into the Oil & Gas Operations Industry of the Energy Sector within Market Guide. The peer group members of this new classification have been sent over to Enron.  Please let me know how you would like to proceed. TAB O (Multex) -- Multex is in the process of updating its Business Overview of Enron, which should include changing the size of Enron's assets to $33 billion and possibly including the Company's ranking within the Fortune 500. In addition, I am exploring if there is a more advantageous industry classification for Enron.  Enron is currently classified in the Basic Energy industry sector and its peer group is Major Pipeline Companies.  Dynegy's peer group is Major Oil & Gas Gathering & Marketing Companies -- perhaps this is a more appropriate classification for Enron.  Please let me know that you think. TAB R (Quicken)  -- Quicken obtains its data from Media General Financial Services.  I have spoken with an analyst at Media General and he has updated the Descriptor for Enron: ""Delivers physical commodities and financial and risk management services to customers; develops, constructs and operates energy facilities worldwide; produces electricity and natural gas; and is developing a network platform to facilitate on line business.""  The new descriptor should appear on Quicken.com within the next several days.  In addition, I am working with the analyst to develop a more appropriate Industry classification for Enron.  Media General currently classifies Enron as a Basic Materials Wholesale company. TAB S (Reuters MoneyNet) -- The data on this service is provided by Market Guide (TAB M). TAB T (Reuters Business Briefing) -- Reuters is in the process of updating the Activities section for Enron, which includes changing the Company's name to Enron Corp.; changing the IR contact to Mark Koenig; and updating the number of employees at the Company. TAB W (Value Line) -- Work in progress. I will give the both of you a call tomorrow to discuss the next steps of the project. Michael 
BusinessWeek is writing a story for its eBiz insert in mid-May about how Enron is using the Internet and e-commerce to again transform its businesses.  Wendy Zellner, who works out of the magazine's Dallas bureau, will be in Houston on Tuesday and Wednesday to conduct interviews. The following are the interview topics and schedule: Tuesday, May 2 10 a.m. - Shareholder meeting 3:30 p.m. - Louise Kitchen How was EnronOnline conceived and created? What did you and your group have to do to get EOL up and running? Did it really take only six months? How much did it cost to develop? How does EOL change Enron's existing business? Does it let you or your customers do anything that they couldn't do before? How much market share are you gaining and from whom? How much incremental revenue/profits will you ultimately get from EOL? How long does a trade take now vs. the old system? Does the Net make any new products possible? How does EOL compare to other electronic exchanges being created (such as the Dynegy/Williams/eSpeed venture)? What savings, back office and otherwise, do you get from going online? Wednesday, May 3 1:30 p.m. - Joe Hirko Explain the technicalities of setting up this business. What kind of technology did you have to invest in to make this happen? How big is the market opportunity, how fast-growing, how profitable? What advantages/disadvantages does Enron have vs. competitors? What are the potential roadblocks to creating a truly liquid market for trading bandwidth? Why is it important to have a network and the content delivery services along with the trading? How much will you invest this year?  Next year? (note: we've given Wendy the names and numbers of customers -- Verio, US West, Atomfilms) 3:30 p.m. - Jeff Skilling How is Enron using the Internet overseas to reach new customers more quickly? Germany example -- setting up web site to reach local distribution companies quickly -- How many customers has it helped you sign up and in what time period?  How long would that have taken under the old regime? Where else are you using the Internet abroad and with what results? What kinds of products might go through EOL in the future? What are the characteristics of the things you'll consider? In all areas, how does Enron stack up to the competition when it comes to using the Internet? How soon will EOL have competition? How long-lasting will your first-mover advantage be? Is the Internet changing in any significant way any other internal processes at Enron - i.e. recruiting, purchasing, managing your plants or pipelines? 4:30 p.m. - Sean Holmes How are you using the Internet to serve the big customers that you're getting in the retail energy business? How is that affecting costs? Communication time? Mark Palmer or I will bring Wendy to your office for the interview.  If you have any questions, please let me know. Thank you for your assistance. Karen Denne 
Thought you'd get a kick out of this (especially after our recent ""hold music"" activity!) Try this.   It's for real.   The following is the customer service number for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 1-800-578-7453 Dial the number and listen to their greeting message, until the point when you are requested to choose an extension, and then you can hang up. The greeting message is priceless though, and worth the 
FYI, the attached press release announcing a fiber exchange is scheduled to be issued tomorrow by Qwest, however EBS is not named in the release (due to sensitivities with the pending USWest deal).  Under the terms of the exchange,  we gave them access on our Denver-to-Dallas route and we received New Orleans to Jacksonville via Tallahassee; Jacksonville to Charlotte; and Tallahassee to Louisville via Atlanta and Nashville. If you have any questions, please contact me. Thanks. kd 
Karen, Here's the Qwest release that I just left word on your voicemail about. While it doesn't mention Enron, the 1000 mile route spoken to was acquired in a fiber exchange with Enron.  Let's discuss. thx, Kris Caldwell Enron Communications, Inc. Public Relations Manager (503) 886-0269 
FYI, Reuters crossed the attached article on Y2K and highlighted Enron's worst case scenario information from our SEC filing .  We can probably expect more articles like this during December.  Our reactive media statement on Enron's 10K remains the same, but the media is likely to run our filing language, as they are looking for ""doomsday"" quotes (I spoke to the Reuters reporter and explained that we complied with the SEC requirements and the worst case scenario was unlikely, yet the reporter still ran 10K quotes rather than a corporate response to the filing.) If you have any questions, please call me. Thanks. Karen, x39757 
FYI - may generate some interest from the media!! 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
Attached is a new draft of the press release, which is scheduled to be released before the opening of the market tomorrow morning.  Please let me know tonight if you have any additional changes. Thank you. Karen 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Steve -- here's the schedule for Thursday: 8-9 a.m. CEO Meeting at Sun w/ Northern California CEOs - Santa Clara 3:30 p.m. Meeting w/ Mayor Riordan - LA 4:15 p.m. Meeting w/ other LA CEOs I've attached the invitations for both meetings, as well as the invitation lists (Riordan has added some names to the LA list).  Given the extensive logistics, I'm planning on going with Ken -- do you think Jeff Dasovich should come also?  Jeff and I are working on a handout presentation (about 10-15 power point slides) for Ken to use during the meeting. What do you think about sending the information Jeff prepared for McNealy to the CEOs in advance of the meeting so that they have something to think about before they arrive for the discussion? Ken needs to meet with the UC Chancellor while he's in LA (probably around lunchtime), but are there any other meetings you think he should have while he's in California? For a briefing package, I'm putting together info (bios, company info) on all the CEOs who will be attending the meetings.  Is there anything else we need to prepare for Ken? Hurry back -- we miss you! kd 
Eric -- Attached is the letter and invitation list for the meeting on Thursday with the Mayor and Enron Chairman Ken Lay.  We will fax the invitations as soon as I  hear Monday morning from Kevin Sharer's office whether he is amenable to hosting the meeting.  I do not have contact information for Selim Zihlka, so if you could call or email me with that information, I'll make sure he receives an invitation. Please call me if you have any questions. Thank you for your assistance with this meeting. Regards, Karen Denne Vice President Public Relations Enron Corp. 713-853-9757 - work 713-853-6790 - fax 713-907-7906 - cell 281-861-7017 - home 
fyi... 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3456) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company Receives Court Approval of Second-Day Motions SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 9, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Utility Granted Authority to Continue Efforts to Secure Natural Gas Supplies, Use Cash Collateral for Normal Business Operations Pacific Gas and Electric Company today received approval from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California, of various second-day motions. These orders will enable Pacific Gas and Electric Company to continue to fulfill post-petition obligations to suppliers and other creditors without disruption, and so that all parties' interests are considered, and treated fairly. The goal of these early proceedings is to assure stability of the company, in accordance with bankruptcy law. The court granted the utility the authority to continue to use its natural gas revenues to secure future supplies, hopefully ensuring that there will be no disruption of service for millions of natural gas customers. The court also authorized interim use of cash collateral in which mortgage bondholders have a beneficial interest, and scheduled and established deadlines relating to a final hearing on the continued use of cash collateral. Also today, Pacific Gas and Electric Company asked the Court to allow at least a 60 day suspension of a requirement approved by the CPUC on March 27, that would force PG&amp;E to restate all its regulatory books and accounts back to Jan. 1, 1998 in order to prolong the current electric rate freeze and make it appear that PG&amp;E has never incurred any operating losses on its wholesale power costs since the energy crisis began. Under the CPUC order, PG&amp;E is required to file tariffs and reports by Wednesday, April 11, making the accounting changes and restating its books. PG&amp;E believes the CPUC accounting and ratemaking change is intended to interfere with the rights of creditors and shareholders to recover over $8.9 billion in undercollected power costs that the company has accrued since last summer. Under federal bankruptcy law, PG&amp;E, as a ""debtor in possession,"" generally has an additional 60 days to comply with various deadlines issued by other agencies, and actions by those agencies which would interfere with creditors rights and the value of PG&amp;E's assets cannot be implemented without approval of the bankruptcy judge. At the Court's request, Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the CPUC are currently negotiating on an extension of this filing requirement, and is hopeful that an agreed upon solution can be reached in a timely manner. CONTACT: Pacific Gas and Electric Company |              News Department, 415/973-5930 
Here's Calpine's announcement, fyi... PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market /FROM PR NEWSWIRE SAN FRANCISCO  415-543-7800/ TO BUSINESS AND ENERGY EDITORS: PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market SAN JOSE, Calif., April 9 /PRNewswire/ -- In response to Pacific Gas and Electric Company's (PG&E) April 6th Chapter 11 filing, Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN), the San Jose, Calif.-based independent power company, stated it is confident that PG&E, through a successful reorganization, will be able to pay Calpine's Qualifying Facility (QF) subsidiaries for all past due power sales, in addition to electricity deliveries made on a going-forward basis. CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES SELL POWER TO PG&E UNDER THE TERMS OF LONG-TERM QF CONTRACTS AT ELEVEN FACILITIES, REPRESENTING NEARLY 600 MEGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY FOR NORTHERN CALIFORNIA POWER CUSTOMERS.  AS OF MARCH 31, 2001, CALPINE HAS RECORDED APPROXIMATELY $267 MILLION IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WITH PG&E, PLUS A $68 MILLION NOTE RECEIVABLE NOT YET DUE AND PAYABLE.  THE COMPANY'S REMAINING CALIFORNIA OPERATIONS, TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 700 MEGAWATTS OF CAPACITY, PROVIDE ELECTRICITY TO MUNICIPALITIES AND OTHER CREDITWORTHY THIRD PARTIES. CALPINE'S QF FACILITIES ARE PART OF A 9,000-MEGAWATT QF SUPPLY THAT PROVIDE CALIFORNIA CUSTOMERS WITH A LONG-TERM SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY AT PRICES SIGNIFICANTLY BELOW CURRENT WHOLESALE PRICES.  THIS CRITICAL POWER SUPPLY REPRESENTS APPROXIMATELY 33 PERCENT OF THE STATE'S POWER DEMAND.  WITHOUT THESE CONTRACTS IN PLACE FOR THIS SUMMER, CALIFORNIA FACES THE PROSPECT OF MORE BLACKOUTS AND HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN INCREASED COSTS. FOR THESE QF CONTRACTS TO CONTINUE, PG&E MUST ASSUME THE CONTRACTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.  IN ORDER TO ASSUME THESE CONTRACTS, PG&E WILL BE REQUIRED TO CURE ALL OUTSTANDING DEFAULTS, INCLUDING PAYING ALL PAST DUE AMOUNTS.  IF PG&E FAILS TO ASSUME THE CONTRACTS, CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES WILL BE ABLE TO SELL POWER ON THE OPEN MARKET AND SEEK DAMAGES FROM PG&E FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT THROUGH THE BANKRUPTCY CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS. ""As the state's leading developer of new electric generating facilities, 
Steve/Rick/Paul -- In case Bev didn't mention the following to you, I thought you'd like to see the great feedback we got on Sue's participation in the VICA Energy Summit.  She really stepped up when we found out at the last minute that Enron didn't have a representative -- and agreed to fly to LA and speak on 12 hours notice.  A consummate team player -- kudos, Sue!  kd 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
fyi 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Class Action Lawsuits Alleging Restraint of Trade and Unfair Business Practices Filed Against SoCal Gas, San Diego Gas & Electric, And El Paso Natural Gas LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18 /PRNewswire/  via NewsEdge Corporation  - Two related class action lawsuits have been filed in the California Superior Court in Los Angeles, against Southern California Gas Company, San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company, Sempra Energy (parent of the two utilities), El Paso Natural Gas Co., and other companies related to El Paso Natural Gas. The two lawsuits allege a conspiracy resulting in restraint of trade and unfair competition and unlawful business practices.  The complaints summarize the issue as follows: This action involves a massive conspiracy to eliminate competition in the newly deregulated energy industry that has resulted in endangering California's electrical system and threatening California's economy.  It is perhaps the largest gouging of energy consumers in American history. Southern California's current ""energy crisis"" is not simply the result of ever-increasing demand by a growing population for energy.  Rather, it is the direct result of a conspiracy among the natural gas industry's most powerful Southern California players to preserve and maintain the market dominance that they enjoyed for many years as monopolies subject to regulation.  When the artificial monopoly created by regulation was disassembled, those dominant companies took prompt and illegal action to ensure that they would not lose the benefits of their market power.  Their unlawful collusion has contributed significantly to the recent astronomical increases in the price of natural gas and electricity.  As a result, Southern California customers have had to pay billions of dollars extra for their natural gas and electric needs.  This lawsuit seeks to recover those damages. (Para. 1 and 2 of complaint.) ""In September of 1996, top executives of Southern California Gas Company (""SoCal Gas""), San Diego Gas &amp; Electric (""SDG&amp;E"") and El Paso Natural Gas Corporation (""EPNG"") met at the Embassy Suites Hotel, near Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.  Fearing a new era of open competition and lower prices, these latter day captains of industry gathered secretly to hatch a conspiracy to dominate the unregulated aspects of the natural gas and electricity markets.  At the meeting, these three companies, who together dominate the Southern California natural gas market, illegally agreed not to compete against each other in the Southern California and Baja California natural gas delivery markets.  They also conspired to prevent other pipelines from being built that would have competed against them and lowered natural gas prices in these markets.  The conspirators sought to eliminate competition, take advantage of electric deregulation, 
fyi 
fyi 
Jim and Ken -- Attached is an article for eBiz (our biweekly online newsletter), which we are scheduled to launch at 7:30 a.m. Friday.  Kelly Kimberly has reviewed it, but has asked that you view the article as well.  Since only EBS employees received your memo about the restructuring -- and the rest of the employees did not receive any communication -- it is extremely important to provide information through this vehicle. Please let me know of your approval or if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
Enron: ISO Credit Problems Are Those Of Calif Utilities Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 12/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Mark Golden NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The credit problems of the California Independent System Operator reflect the credit problems of the state's three investor-owned utilities, Enron Corp. (ENE) chief of staff Steven Kean said Wednesday. ""We have expressed some concerns about the utilities' creditworthiness,"" Kean said. ""They wouldn't have this credit issue if they had a government 
FYI... 
Jim and Ken -- Attached is an article for eBiz (our biweekly online newsletter), which we are scheduled to launch at 7:30 a.m. Friday.  Kelly Kimberly has reviewed it, but has asked that you view the article as well.  Since only EBS employees received your memo about the restructuring -- and the rest of the employees did not receive any communication -- it is extremely important to provide information through this vehicle. Please let me know of your approval or if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
fyi 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Eric -- Attached is the letter and invitation list for the meeting on Thursday with the Mayor and Enron Chairman Ken Lay.  We will fax the invitations as soon as I  hear Monday morning from Kevin Sharer's office whether he is amenable to hosting the meeting.  I do not have contact information for Selim Zihlka, so if you could call or email me with that information, I'll make sure he receives an invitation. Please call me if you have any questions. Thank you for your assistance with this meeting. Regards, Karen Denne Vice President Public Relations Enron Corp. 713-853-9757 - work 713-853-6790 - fax 713-907-7906 - cell 281-861-7017 - home 
FYI... 
Jeff -- I'll be working on the PR activities for this issue.  I've made a few revisions to the draft  (approaches and messages).  Let's discuss later this morning. Thanks. kd 
Here's the draft with comments from Steve, Mark and Mona included.  If anyone has any others, please send them along.  This wil likely go to IEP Thursday or Friday. 
Rob -- This info is great.  For use w/ the media, we'll need to simplify, and it would be helpful to have specific examples of what a utility would pay and the overall result of a market with price caps, the current ""open"" market (under ISO regulation, buying from the PX) and a pure open market (using hedges to manage risk). thx. kd 
FYI, John Bryson is on the board of the LA Times. Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/10/2000 02:55 PM 
Following is an excerpt from a LA Times article illustrating a different, more negative point of view concerning deregulation compared to earlier articles I had sent. The whole article is attached at the bottom. Overconfident lawmakers even inserted as Section 330A of the Public Utilities Code: ""It is the intent of the Legislature that a cumulative rate reduction of at least 20% be achieved not later than April 1, 2002, for residential and small commercial customers from the rates 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
We need to be careful how we position this.  I'm concerned that this may be perceived as Enron re-entering the residential market -- even though we're proposing to supply SDG&E rather than direct end-use customers.  How does this compare to the other eight offers SDG&E has received? James D Steffes@EES 08/17/2000 01:38 PM 
Attached is a write-up of a presentation on making a ""public"" offer in SDG&E's territory for supplying their residential load. If we are to do this, we need to probably have something ready by late August. Any comments? 
Just in case you need this for future reference.  I played with it and gave it a simple look.  (You can always delete if you don't like it.) mm 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
fyi -- great job! 
Karen, Here is a copy of the story, which is unfortunately quite a bit shorter. Thank you both for your help, and please give a special thanks to Mr. Kean for his extremely helpful comments and analogies. Sincerely, Vibeke Laroi (See attached file: fair power grid.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - fair power grid.doc 
fyi 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
FYI, the attached press release announcing a fiber exchange is scheduled to be issued tomorrow by Qwest, however EBS is not named in the release (due to sensitivities with the pending USWest deal).  Under the terms of the exchange,  we gave them access on our Denver-to-Dallas route and we received New Orleans to Jacksonville via Tallahassee; Jacksonville to Charlotte; and Tallahassee to Louisville via Atlanta and Nashville. If you have any questions, please contact me. Thanks. kd 
Karen, Here's the Qwest release that I just left word on your voicemail about. While it doesn't mention Enron, the 1000 mile route spoken to was acquired in a fiber exchange with Enron.  Let's discuss. thx, Kris Caldwell Enron Communications, Inc. Public Relations Manager (503) 886-0269 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
Ricardo -- Per your request, here is some general information about Enron that should be helpful in providing background materials for the Lay/Fox meeting. I've attached the corporate fact sheet, second quarter earnings analyst presentation, EBS profile and recent news articles about Enron.  Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks. Karen 713-853-9757 http://www.businessweek.com/2000/00_30/b3691034.htm?scriptFramed http://www.fortune.com/fortune/2000/08/14/pre.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/technology/2000/01/24/eco.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/fortune500/enr.html http://www.forbes.com/forbes/00/0724/6517145a3.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ 2000/00_20/b3681075.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ ebiz/0007/0713skilling.htm http://www.business2.com/content/magazine/indepth/2000/06/01/11888 http://www.forbes.com/tool/html/00/jul/0720/mu4.htm http://cbs.marketwatch.com/archive/20000410/news/current/diligence.htx?source= htx/http2_mw http://eeshou-etv02.ees.enron.com/moneyline/moneyline.ram 
The attached Q&A and release incorporates comments from the int'l business units, legal and HR.  Would you please review once more before routing to Ken, Jeff and Joe.  Mark, do you want to send it under your cover? Thanks! kd 
Steve -- here's the schedule for Thursday: 8-9 a.m. CEO Meeting at Sun w/ Northern California CEOs - Santa Clara 3:30 p.m. Meeting w/ Mayor Riordan - LA 4:15 p.m. Meeting w/ other LA CEOs I've attached the invitations for both meetings, as well as the invitation lists (Riordan has added some names to the LA list).  Given the extensive logistics, I'm planning on going with Ken -- do you think Jeff Dasovich should come also?  Jeff and I are working on a handout presentation (about 10-15 power point slides) for Ken to use during the meeting. What do you think about sending the information Jeff prepared for McNealy to the CEOs in advance of the meeting so that they have something to think about before they arrive for the discussion? Ken needs to meet with the UC Chancellor while he's in LA (probably around lunchtime), but are there any other meetings you think he should have while he's in California? For a briefing package, I'm putting together info (bios, company info) on all the CEOs who will be attending the meetings.  Is there anything else we need to prepare for Ken? Hurry back -- we miss you! kd 
fyi 
FYI, from Kelly.  Stacy 
______________________ Marissa C. Womble Enron Broadband Services Office: 713-345-7582 Cell: 713-569-7859 Marissa_Womble@enron.net 
Attached is the latest draft Q&A document, which I've edited and attempted to organize into topics.  There are a number of questions that still need answers.  I've also attached a draft of the key messages.   Please let me know if you have any additions, comments or changes to either document by the end of the day Thursday. Thank you. Karen 
The attached press release announcing a gas sales agreement between Metgas and RCF was reviewed and approved in March, but the release was postponed. The GSA is expected to be signed next week, and we would like to issue the release in Mumbai.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by Monday, June 12. Thank you. kd 
fyi 
fyi 
FYI, John Bryson is on the board of the LA Times. Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/10/2000 02:55 PM 
Following is an excerpt from a LA Times article illustrating a different, more negative point of view concerning deregulation compared to earlier articles I had sent. The whole article is attached at the bottom. Overconfident lawmakers even inserted as Section 330A of the Public Utilities Code: ""It is the intent of the Legislature that a cumulative rate reduction of at least 20% be achieved not later than April 1, 2002, for residential and small commercial customers from the rates 
We need to be careful how we position this.  I'm concerned that this may be perceived as Enron re-entering the residential market -- even though we're proposing to supply SDG&E rather than direct end-use customers.  How does this compare to the other eight offers SDG&E has received? James D Steffes@EES 08/17/2000 01:38 PM 
Attached is a write-up of a presentation on making a ""public"" offer in SDG&E's territory for supplying their residential load. If we are to do this, we need to probably have something ready by late August. Any comments? 
Just in case you need this for future reference.  I played with it and gave it a simple look.  (You can always delete if you don't like it.) mm 
fyi -- great job! 
Karen, Here is a copy of the story, which is unfortunately quite a bit shorter. Thank you both for your help, and please give a special thanks to Mr. Kean for his extremely helpful comments and analogies. Sincerely, Vibeke Laroi (See attached file: fair power grid.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - fair power grid.doc 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
Jim and Ken -- Attached is an article for eBiz (our biweekly online newsletter), which we are scheduled to launch at 7:30 a.m. Friday.  Kelly Kimberly has reviewed it, but has asked that you view the article as well.  Since only EBS employees received your memo about the restructuring -- and the rest of the employees did not receive any communication -- it is extremely important to provide information through this vehicle. Please let me know of your approval or if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
FYI... 
fyi 
fyi 
FYI, Reuters crossed the attached article on Y2K and highlighted Enron's worst case scenario information from our SEC filing .  We can probably expect more articles like this during December.  Our reactive media statement on Enron's 10K remains the same, but the media is likely to run our filing language, as they are looking for ""doomsday"" quotes (I spoke to the Reuters reporter and explained that we complied with the SEC requirements and the worst case scenario was unlikely, yet the reporter still ran 10K quotes rather than a corporate response to the filing.) If you have any questions, please call me. Thanks. Karen, x39757 
FYI - may generate some interest from the media!! 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
Calif. power resources will be 3,752 Mw short in 2001 By David Feliciano, BridgeNews Scottsdale, Ariz.--Dec. 7--California resources and reserves for electricity will be 3,752 megawatts short of the anticipated load in 2001, California Independent System Operator (ISO) President and CEO Terry Winter said Thursday at the annual Western Systems Coordinating Council meeting. ""I'm concerned about supply,"" Winter said. ""Without sufficient supply, markets will set socially and politically 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Jeannie drafted this op-ed in response to the situation in the California market.  Please let me know if you'd like to proceed with placement in a CA newspaper.  If so, we need to decide who should author and what is the ideal placement.  thx. kd 
Karen, I've incorporated your suggestions. Still need to know current state mw capacity and no. of peaking mw approved for next summer. Hope Jeff can help or direct me to someone who can. Sorry for this AOL transmission -- the system is running really slow. Take care, Jeannie - Electricity Op Ed.doc 
Attached is the PR plan prepared by Marathon for December and 1Q01.   I've also attached the draft CEO email specified in the plan and the target list of key industrial and technology leaders in California.   Please review the plan and preliminary messages.  Keep in mind that as the holidays are approaching rapidly, we need to move quickly to begin implementing the PR plan.  Please let me know by Friday, Dec. 15 if you have any comments, concerns or suggestions. Thank you. Karen 
Enron: ISO Credit Problems Are Those Of Calif Utilities Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 12/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Mark Golden NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The credit problems of the California Independent System Operator reflect the credit problems of the state's three investor-owned utilities, Enron Corp. (ENE) chief of staff Steven Kean said Wednesday. ""We have expressed some concerns about the utilities' creditworthiness,"" Kean said. ""They wouldn't have this credit issue if they had a government 
FYI, the attached press release announcing a fiber exchange is scheduled to be issued tomorrow by Qwest, however EBS is not named in the release (due to sensitivities with the pending USWest deal).  Under the terms of the exchange,  we gave them access on our Denver-to-Dallas route and we received New Orleans to Jacksonville via Tallahassee; Jacksonville to Charlotte; and Tallahassee to Louisville via Atlanta and Nashville. If you have any questions, please contact me. Thanks. kd 
Karen, Here's the Qwest release that I just left word on your voicemail about. While it doesn't mention Enron, the 1000 mile route spoken to was acquired in a fiber exchange with Enron.  Let's discuss. thx, Kris Caldwell Enron Communications, Inc. Public Relations Manager (503) 886-0269 
Thought you'd get a kick out of this (especially after our recent ""hold music"" activity!) Try this.   It's for real.   The following is the customer service number for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 1-800-578-7453 Dial the number and listen to their greeting message, until the point when you are requested to choose an extension, and then you can hang up. The greeting message is priceless though, and worth the 
BusinessWeek is writing a story for its eBiz insert in mid-May about how Enron is using the Internet and e-commerce to again transform its businesses.  Wendy Zellner, who works out of the magazine's Dallas bureau, will be in Houston on Tuesday and Wednesday to conduct interviews. The following are the interview topics and schedule: Tuesday, May 2 10 a.m. - Shareholder meeting 3:30 p.m. - Louise Kitchen How was EnronOnline conceived and created? What did you and your group have to do to get EOL up and running? Did it really take only six months? How much did it cost to develop? How does EOL change Enron's existing business? Does it let you or your customers do anything that they couldn't do before? How much market share are you gaining and from whom? How much incremental revenue/profits will you ultimately get from EOL? How long does a trade take now vs. the old system? Does the Net make any new products possible? How does EOL compare to other electronic exchanges being created (such as the Dynegy/Williams/eSpeed venture)? What savings, back office and otherwise, do you get from going online? Wednesday, May 3 1:30 p.m. - Joe Hirko Explain the technicalities of setting up this business. What kind of technology did you have to invest in to make this happen? How big is the market opportunity, how fast-growing, how profitable? What advantages/disadvantages does Enron have vs. competitors? What are the potential roadblocks to creating a truly liquid market for trading bandwidth? Why is it important to have a network and the content delivery services along with the trading? How much will you invest this year?  Next year? (note: we've given Wendy the names and numbers of customers -- Verio, US West, Atomfilms) 3:30 p.m. - Jeff Skilling How is Enron using the Internet overseas to reach new customers more quickly? Germany example -- setting up web site to reach local distribution companies quickly -- How many customers has it helped you sign up and in what time period?  How long would that have taken under the old regime? Where else are you using the Internet abroad and with what results? What kinds of products might go through EOL in the future? What are the characteristics of the things you'll consider? In all areas, how does Enron stack up to the competition when it comes to using the Internet? How soon will EOL have competition? How long-lasting will your first-mover advantage be? Is the Internet changing in any significant way any other internal processes at Enron - i.e. recruiting, purchasing, managing your plants or pipelines? 4:30 p.m. - Sean Holmes How are you using the Internet to serve the big customers that you're getting in the retail energy business? How is that affecting costs? Communication time? Mark Palmer or I will bring Wendy to your office for the interview.  If you have any questions, please let me know. Thank you for your assistance. Karen Denne 
Mark/Steve -- Meredith has made great progress working w/ Kekst on updating Enron descriptions in all the key databases -- the project is nearly done!  kd 
As tomorrow is my last day in the office before the ""Big Day"" I wanted to provide both of you with an update as to where we stand on the Online Database Audit. TAB C (Baseline) -- Baseline has updated its Business Overview of Enron Corp. and the new version has been approved by Mark Palmer. TAB E (CorpTech/OneSource) -- The listing questionnaire was faxed to Meredith last week to be updated and faxed directly back to CorpTech. TAB F (DJ Interactive) -- The data in the DJ report comes from Hoover's.  I am currently working with Hoover's to update the Business Description in the DJ report. TAB G (D&B) -- An updated list of officers, directors, financials and the expanded business description has been sent to the update desk at D&B.  It will probably take at least 3 weeks for the D&B report to be updated. TAB H (Extel Company Report) -- Extel is now reporting updated financials for Enron Corp.  Extel is also in the process of updating the Activities and Management section of the report. TAB K (Hoover's) -- Hoover's is in the process of updating its list of Officers for Enron Corp. TAB M (Market Guide) -- Market Guide is in the process of changing the Company's name to Enron Corp. and is updating its Business Summary and list of Officers for the Company.  In addition, we could have Enron moved into the Oil & Gas Operations Industry of the Energy Sector within Market Guide. The peer group members of this new classification have been sent over to Enron.  Please let me know how you would like to proceed. TAB O (Multex) -- Multex is in the process of updating its Business Overview of Enron, which should include changing the size of Enron's assets to $33 billion and possibly including the Company's ranking within the Fortune 500. In addition, I am exploring if there is a more advantageous industry classification for Enron.  Enron is currently classified in the Basic Energy industry sector and its peer group is Major Pipeline Companies.  Dynegy's peer group is Major Oil & Gas Gathering & Marketing Companies -- perhaps this is a more appropriate classification for Enron.  Please let me know that you think. TAB R (Quicken)  -- Quicken obtains its data from Media General Financial Services.  I have spoken with an analyst at Media General and he has updated the Descriptor for Enron: ""Delivers physical commodities and financial and risk management services to customers; develops, constructs and operates energy facilities worldwide; produces electricity and natural gas; and is developing a network platform to facilitate on line business.""  The new descriptor should appear on Quicken.com within the next several days.  In addition, I am working with the analyst to develop a more appropriate Industry classification for Enron.  Media General currently classifies Enron as a Basic Materials Wholesale company. TAB S (Reuters MoneyNet) -- The data on this service is provided by Market Guide (TAB M). TAB T (Reuters Business Briefing) -- Reuters is in the process of updating the Activities section for Enron, which includes changing the Company's name to Enron Corp.; changing the IR contact to Mark Koenig; and updating the number of employees at the Company. TAB W (Value Line) -- Work in progress. I will give the both of you a call tomorrow to discuss the next steps of the project. Michael 
The attached press release announcing a gas sales agreement between Metgas and RCF was reviewed and approved in March, but the release was postponed. The GSA is expected to be signed next week, and we would like to issue the release in Mumbai.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by Monday, June 12. Thank you. kd 
Class Action Lawsuits Alleging Restraint of Trade and Unfair Business Practices Filed Against SoCal Gas, San Diego Gas & Electric, And El Paso Natural Gas LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18 /PRNewswire/  via NewsEdge Corporation  - Two related class action lawsuits have been filed in the California Superior Court in Los Angeles, against Southern California Gas Company, San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company, Sempra Energy (parent of the two utilities), El Paso Natural Gas Co., and other companies related to El Paso Natural Gas. The two lawsuits allege a conspiracy resulting in restraint of trade and unfair competition and unlawful business practices.  The complaints summarize the issue as follows: This action involves a massive conspiracy to eliminate competition in the newly deregulated energy industry that has resulted in endangering California's electrical system and threatening California's economy.  It is perhaps the largest gouging of energy consumers in American history. Southern California's current ""energy crisis"" is not simply the result of ever-increasing demand by a growing population for energy.  Rather, it is the direct result of a conspiracy among the natural gas industry's most powerful Southern California players to preserve and maintain the market dominance that they enjoyed for many years as monopolies subject to regulation.  When the artificial monopoly created by regulation was disassembled, those dominant companies took prompt and illegal action to ensure that they would not lose the benefits of their market power.  Their unlawful collusion has contributed significantly to the recent astronomical increases in the price of natural gas and electricity.  As a result, Southern California customers have had to pay billions of dollars extra for their natural gas and electric needs.  This lawsuit seeks to recover those damages. (Para. 1 and 2 of complaint.) ""In September of 1996, top executives of Southern California Gas Company (""SoCal Gas""), San Diego Gas &amp; Electric (""SDG&amp;E"") and El Paso Natural Gas Corporation (""EPNG"") met at the Embassy Suites Hotel, near Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.  Fearing a new era of open competition and lower prices, these latter day captains of industry gathered secretly to hatch a conspiracy to dominate the unregulated aspects of the natural gas and electricity markets.  At the meeting, these three companies, who together dominate the Southern California natural gas market, illegally agreed not to compete against each other in the Southern California and Baja California natural gas delivery markets.  They also conspired to prevent other pipelines from being built that would have competed against them and lowered natural gas prices in these markets.  The conspirators sought to eliminate competition, take advantage of electric deregulation, 
fyi 
FYI, from Kelly.  Stacy 
______________________ Marissa C. Womble Enron Broadband Services Office: 713-345-7582 Cell: 713-569-7859 Marissa_Womble@enron.net 
Jeff -- I'll be working on the PR activities for this issue.  I've made a few revisions to the draft  (approaches and messages).  Let's discuss later this morning. Thanks. kd 
Here's the draft with comments from Steve, Mark and Mona included.  If anyone has any others, please send them along.  This wil likely go to IEP Thursday or Friday. 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
fyi 
Rob -- This info is great.  For use w/ the media, we'll need to simplify, and it would be helpful to have specific examples of what a utility would pay and the overall result of a market with price caps, the current ""open"" market (under ISO regulation, buying from the PX) and a pure open market (using hedges to manage risk). thx. kd 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
FYI, the Aug. 14 issue of Fortune is their retirement special, and Enron is one of ""10 stocks to last the decade.""  Awesome article. Check it out: 
Steve/Rick/Paul -- In case Bev didn't mention the following to you, I thought you'd like to see the great feedback we got on Sue's participation in the VICA Energy Summit.  She really stepped up when we found out at the last minute that Enron didn't have a representative -- and agreed to fly to LA and speak on 12 hours notice.  A consummate team player -- kudos, Sue!  kd 
Here's Calpine's announcement, fyi... PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market /FROM PR NEWSWIRE SAN FRANCISCO  415-543-7800/ TO BUSINESS AND ENERGY EDITORS: PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market SAN JOSE, Calif., April 9 /PRNewswire/ -- In response to Pacific Gas and Electric Company's (PG&E) April 6th Chapter 11 filing, Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN), the San Jose, Calif.-based independent power company, stated it is confident that PG&E, through a successful reorganization, will be able to pay Calpine's Qualifying Facility (QF) subsidiaries for all past due power sales, in addition to electricity deliveries made on a going-forward basis. CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES SELL POWER TO PG&E UNDER THE TERMS OF LONG-TERM QF CONTRACTS AT ELEVEN FACILITIES, REPRESENTING NEARLY 600 MEGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY FOR NORTHERN CALIFORNIA POWER CUSTOMERS.  AS OF MARCH 31, 2001, CALPINE HAS RECORDED APPROXIMATELY $267 MILLION IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WITH PG&E, PLUS A $68 MILLION NOTE RECEIVABLE NOT YET DUE AND PAYABLE.  THE COMPANY'S REMAINING CALIFORNIA OPERATIONS, TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 700 MEGAWATTS OF CAPACITY, PROVIDE ELECTRICITY TO MUNICIPALITIES AND OTHER CREDITWORTHY THIRD PARTIES. CALPINE'S QF FACILITIES ARE PART OF A 9,000-MEGAWATT QF SUPPLY THAT PROVIDE CALIFORNIA CUSTOMERS WITH A LONG-TERM SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY AT PRICES SIGNIFICANTLY BELOW CURRENT WHOLESALE PRICES.  THIS CRITICAL POWER SUPPLY REPRESENTS APPROXIMATELY 33 PERCENT OF THE STATE'S POWER DEMAND.  WITHOUT THESE CONTRACTS IN PLACE FOR THIS SUMMER, CALIFORNIA FACES THE PROSPECT OF MORE BLACKOUTS AND HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN INCREASED COSTS. FOR THESE QF CONTRACTS TO CONTINUE, PG&E MUST ASSUME THE CONTRACTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.  IN ORDER TO ASSUME THESE CONTRACTS, PG&E WILL BE REQUIRED TO CURE ALL OUTSTANDING DEFAULTS, INCLUDING PAYING ALL PAST DUE AMOUNTS.  IF PG&E FAILS TO ASSUME THE CONTRACTS, CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES WILL BE ABLE TO SELL POWER ON THE OPEN MARKET AND SEEK DAMAGES FROM PG&E FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT THROUGH THE BANKRUPTCY CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS. ""As the state's leading developer of new electric generating facilities, 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company Receives Court Approval of Second-Day Motions SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 9, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Utility Granted Authority to Continue Efforts to Secure Natural Gas Supplies, Use Cash Collateral for Normal Business Operations Pacific Gas and Electric Company today received approval from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California, of various second-day motions. These orders will enable Pacific Gas and Electric Company to continue to fulfill post-petition obligations to suppliers and other creditors without disruption, and so that all parties' interests are considered, and treated fairly. The goal of these early proceedings is to assure stability of the company, in accordance with bankruptcy law. The court granted the utility the authority to continue to use its natural gas revenues to secure future supplies, hopefully ensuring that there will be no disruption of service for millions of natural gas customers. The court also authorized interim use of cash collateral in which mortgage bondholders have a beneficial interest, and scheduled and established deadlines relating to a final hearing on the continued use of cash collateral. Also today, Pacific Gas and Electric Company asked the Court to allow at least a 60 day suspension of a requirement approved by the CPUC on March 27, that would force PG&amp;E to restate all its regulatory books and accounts back to Jan. 1, 1998 in order to prolong the current electric rate freeze and make it appear that PG&amp;E has never incurred any operating losses on its wholesale power costs since the energy crisis began. Under the CPUC order, PG&amp;E is required to file tariffs and reports by Wednesday, April 11, making the accounting changes and restating its books. PG&amp;E believes the CPUC accounting and ratemaking change is intended to interfere with the rights of creditors and shareholders to recover over $8.9 billion in undercollected power costs that the company has accrued since last summer. Under federal bankruptcy law, PG&amp;E, as a ""debtor in possession,"" generally has an additional 60 days to comply with various deadlines issued by other agencies, and actions by those agencies which would interfere with creditors rights and the value of PG&amp;E's assets cannot be implemented without approval of the bankruptcy judge. At the Court's request, Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the CPUC are currently negotiating on an extension of this filing requirement, and is hopeful that an agreed upon solution can be reached in a timely manner. CONTACT: Pacific Gas and Electric Company |              News Department, 415/973-5930 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
fyi... 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3456) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Eric -- Attached is the letter and invitation list for the meeting on Thursday with the Mayor and Enron Chairman Ken Lay.  We will fax the invitations as soon as I  hear Monday morning from Kevin Sharer's office whether he is amenable to hosting the meeting.  I do not have contact information for Selim Zihlka, so if you could call or email me with that information, I'll make sure he receives an invitation. Please call me if you have any questions. Thank you for your assistance with this meeting. Regards, Karen Denne Vice President Public Relations Enron Corp. 713-853-9757 - work 713-853-6790 - fax 713-907-7906 - cell 281-861-7017 - home 
Steve -- here's the schedule for Thursday: 8-9 a.m. CEO Meeting at Sun w/ Northern California CEOs - Santa Clara 3:30 p.m. Meeting w/ Mayor Riordan - LA 4:15 p.m. Meeting w/ other LA CEOs I've attached the invitations for both meetings, as well as the invitation lists (Riordan has added some names to the LA list).  Given the extensive logistics, I'm planning on going with Ken -- do you think Jeff Dasovich should come also?  Jeff and I are working on a handout presentation (about 10-15 power point slides) for Ken to use during the meeting. What do you think about sending the information Jeff prepared for McNealy to the CEOs in advance of the meeting so that they have something to think about before they arrive for the discussion? Ken needs to meet with the UC Chancellor while he's in LA (probably around lunchtime), but are there any other meetings you think he should have while he's in California? For a briefing package, I'm putting together info (bios, company info) on all the CEOs who will be attending the meetings.  Is there anything else we need to prepare for Ken? Hurry back -- we miss you! kd 
see attached link for Saturday's LA Times article, ""Consumers Seek Repeal of Utility Deregulation"": 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
Attached is a new draft of the press release, which is scheduled to be released before the opening of the market tomorrow morning.  Please let me know tonight if you have any additional changes. Thank you. Karen 
Attached is the latest draft Q&A document, which I've edited and attempted to organize into topics.  There are a number of questions that still need answers.  I've also attached a draft of the key messages.   Please let me know if you have any additions, comments or changes to either document by the end of the day Thursday. Thank you. Karen 
Ricardo -- Per your request, here is some general information about Enron that should be helpful in providing background materials for the Lay/Fox meeting. I've attached the corporate fact sheet, second quarter earnings analyst presentation, EBS profile and recent news articles about Enron.  Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks. Karen 713-853-9757 http://www.businessweek.com/2000/00_30/b3691034.htm?scriptFramed http://www.fortune.com/fortune/2000/08/14/pre.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/technology/2000/01/24/eco.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/fortune500/enr.html http://www.forbes.com/forbes/00/0724/6517145a3.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ 2000/00_20/b3681075.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ ebiz/0007/0713skilling.htm http://www.business2.com/content/magazine/indepth/2000/06/01/11888 http://www.forbes.com/tool/html/00/jul/0720/mu4.htm http://cbs.marketwatch.com/archive/20000410/news/current/diligence.htx?source= htx/http2_mw http://eeshou-etv02.ees.enron.com/moneyline/moneyline.ram 
The attached Q&A and release incorporates comments from the int'l business units, legal and HR.  Would you please review once more before routing to Ken, Jeff and Joe.  Mark, do you want to send it under your cover? Thanks! kd 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Steve -- here's the schedule for Thursday: 8-9 a.m. CEO Meeting at Sun w/ Northern California CEOs - Santa Clara 3:30 p.m. Meeting w/ Mayor Riordan - LA 4:15 p.m. Meeting w/ other LA CEOs I've attached the invitations for both meetings, as well as the invitation lists (Riordan has added some names to the LA list).  Given the extensive logistics, I'm planning on going with Ken -- do you think Jeff Dasovich should come also?  Jeff and I are working on a handout presentation (about 10-15 power point slides) for Ken to use during the meeting. What do you think about sending the information Jeff prepared for McNealy to the CEOs in advance of the meeting so that they have something to think about before they arrive for the discussion? Ken needs to meet with the UC Chancellor while he's in LA (probably around lunchtime), but are there any other meetings you think he should have while he's in California? For a briefing package, I'm putting together info (bios, company info) on all the CEOs who will be attending the meetings.  Is there anything else we need to prepare for Ken? Hurry back -- we miss you! kd 
Eric -- Attached is the letter and invitation list for the meeting on Thursday with the Mayor and Enron Chairman Ken Lay.  We will fax the invitations as soon as I  hear Monday morning from Kevin Sharer's office whether he is amenable to hosting the meeting.  I do not have contact information for Selim Zihlka, so if you could call or email me with that information, I'll make sure he receives an invitation. Please call me if you have any questions. Thank you for your assistance with this meeting. Regards, Karen Denne Vice President Public Relations Enron Corp. 713-853-9757 - work 713-853-6790 - fax 713-907-7906 - cell 281-861-7017 - home 
fyi... 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3456) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company Receives Court Approval of Second-Day Motions SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 9, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Utility Granted Authority to Continue Efforts to Secure Natural Gas Supplies, Use Cash Collateral for Normal Business Operations Pacific Gas and Electric Company today received approval from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California, of various second-day motions. These orders will enable Pacific Gas and Electric Company to continue to fulfill post-petition obligations to suppliers and other creditors without disruption, and so that all parties' interests are considered, and treated fairly. The goal of these early proceedings is to assure stability of the company, in accordance with bankruptcy law. The court granted the utility the authority to continue to use its natural gas revenues to secure future supplies, hopefully ensuring that there will be no disruption of service for millions of natural gas customers. The court also authorized interim use of cash collateral in which mortgage bondholders have a beneficial interest, and scheduled and established deadlines relating to a final hearing on the continued use of cash collateral. Also today, Pacific Gas and Electric Company asked the Court to allow at least a 60 day suspension of a requirement approved by the CPUC on March 27, that would force PG&amp;E to restate all its regulatory books and accounts back to Jan. 1, 1998 in order to prolong the current electric rate freeze and make it appear that PG&amp;E has never incurred any operating losses on its wholesale power costs since the energy crisis began. Under the CPUC order, PG&amp;E is required to file tariffs and reports by Wednesday, April 11, making the accounting changes and restating its books. PG&amp;E believes the CPUC accounting and ratemaking change is intended to interfere with the rights of creditors and shareholders to recover over $8.9 billion in undercollected power costs that the company has accrued since last summer. Under federal bankruptcy law, PG&amp;E, as a ""debtor in possession,"" generally has an additional 60 days to comply with various deadlines issued by other agencies, and actions by those agencies which would interfere with creditors rights and the value of PG&amp;E's assets cannot be implemented without approval of the bankruptcy judge. At the Court's request, Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the CPUC are currently negotiating on an extension of this filing requirement, and is hopeful that an agreed upon solution can be reached in a timely manner. CONTACT: Pacific Gas and Electric Company |              News Department, 415/973-5930 
Here's Calpine's announcement, fyi... PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market /FROM PR NEWSWIRE SAN FRANCISCO  415-543-7800/ TO BUSINESS AND ENERGY EDITORS: PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market SAN JOSE, Calif., April 9 /PRNewswire/ -- In response to Pacific Gas and Electric Company's (PG&E) April 6th Chapter 11 filing, Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN), the San Jose, Calif.-based independent power company, stated it is confident that PG&E, through a successful reorganization, will be able to pay Calpine's Qualifying Facility (QF) subsidiaries for all past due power sales, in addition to electricity deliveries made on a going-forward basis. CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES SELL POWER TO PG&E UNDER THE TERMS OF LONG-TERM QF CONTRACTS AT ELEVEN FACILITIES, REPRESENTING NEARLY 600 MEGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY FOR NORTHERN CALIFORNIA POWER CUSTOMERS.  AS OF MARCH 31, 2001, CALPINE HAS RECORDED APPROXIMATELY $267 MILLION IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WITH PG&E, PLUS A $68 MILLION NOTE RECEIVABLE NOT YET DUE AND PAYABLE.  THE COMPANY'S REMAINING CALIFORNIA OPERATIONS, TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 700 MEGAWATTS OF CAPACITY, PROVIDE ELECTRICITY TO MUNICIPALITIES AND OTHER CREDITWORTHY THIRD PARTIES. CALPINE'S QF FACILITIES ARE PART OF A 9,000-MEGAWATT QF SUPPLY THAT PROVIDE CALIFORNIA CUSTOMERS WITH A LONG-TERM SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY AT PRICES SIGNIFICANTLY BELOW CURRENT WHOLESALE PRICES.  THIS CRITICAL POWER SUPPLY REPRESENTS APPROXIMATELY 33 PERCENT OF THE STATE'S POWER DEMAND.  WITHOUT THESE CONTRACTS IN PLACE FOR THIS SUMMER, CALIFORNIA FACES THE PROSPECT OF MORE BLACKOUTS AND HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN INCREASED COSTS. FOR THESE QF CONTRACTS TO CONTINUE, PG&E MUST ASSUME THE CONTRACTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.  IN ORDER TO ASSUME THESE CONTRACTS, PG&E WILL BE REQUIRED TO CURE ALL OUTSTANDING DEFAULTS, INCLUDING PAYING ALL PAST DUE AMOUNTS.  IF PG&E FAILS TO ASSUME THE CONTRACTS, CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES WILL BE ABLE TO SELL POWER ON THE OPEN MARKET AND SEEK DAMAGES FROM PG&E FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT THROUGH THE BANKRUPTCY CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS. ""As the state's leading developer of new electric generating facilities, 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
FYI, EPMI responded to the CPA's RFP for new generation for up to 360 megawatts.  Additionally, Enron Wind responded as well with letters of intent for about 740 megawatts.  Following are the specifics of Enron Wind's response: Project Name	Project Size (MW)	Power Purchase Price/ Facility Purchase Price Christensen Lazar	33 MW (1.5s)	$48.90 per MWh / $17,100,000 Cottonwood	40 MW (1.5s)	$54.50 per MWh / $19,700,000 Green Power	16.5 MW (750s)	$53.70 per MWh / $11,000,000 Jacumba Rumorosa, MX	300 MW (1.5s)	$59.95 per MWh / $227,000,000 Rudnick	300 MW (1.5s) 	$49.90 per MWh / $139,000,000 Tehachapi Hill	51 MW (1.5s)	$59.60 per MWh / $27,100,000 TOTAL:  740.5 MW	TOTAL POWER PURCHASE PRICE:  $326.55 per MWh TOTAL PURCHASE PRICE: $440,900,000 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
fyi 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
FYI... 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Class Action Lawsuits Alleging Restraint of Trade and Unfair Business Practices Filed Against SoCal Gas, San Diego Gas & Electric, And El Paso Natural Gas LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18 /PRNewswire/  via NewsEdge Corporation  - Two related class action lawsuits have been filed in the California Superior Court in Los Angeles, against Southern California Gas Company, San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company, Sempra Energy (parent of the two utilities), El Paso Natural Gas Co., and other companies related to El Paso Natural Gas. The two lawsuits allege a conspiracy resulting in restraint of trade and unfair competition and unlawful business practices.  The complaints summarize the issue as follows: This action involves a massive conspiracy to eliminate competition in the newly deregulated energy industry that has resulted in endangering California's electrical system and threatening California's economy.  It is perhaps the largest gouging of energy consumers in American history. Southern California's current ""energy crisis"" is not simply the result of ever-increasing demand by a growing population for energy.  Rather, it is the direct result of a conspiracy among the natural gas industry's most powerful Southern California players to preserve and maintain the market dominance that they enjoyed for many years as monopolies subject to regulation.  When the artificial monopoly created by regulation was disassembled, those dominant companies took prompt and illegal action to ensure that they would not lose the benefits of their market power.  Their unlawful collusion has contributed significantly to the recent astronomical increases in the price of natural gas and electricity.  As a result, Southern California customers have had to pay billions of dollars extra for their natural gas and electric needs.  This lawsuit seeks to recover those damages. (Para. 1 and 2 of complaint.) ""In September of 1996, top executives of Southern California Gas Company (""SoCal Gas""), San Diego Gas &amp; Electric (""SDG&amp;E"") and El Paso Natural Gas Corporation (""EPNG"") met at the Embassy Suites Hotel, near Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.  Fearing a new era of open competition and lower prices, these latter day captains of industry gathered secretly to hatch a conspiracy to dominate the unregulated aspects of the natural gas and electricity markets.  At the meeting, these three companies, who together dominate the Southern California natural gas market, illegally agreed not to compete against each other in the Southern California and Baja California natural gas delivery markets.  They also conspired to prevent other pipelines from being built that would have competed against them and lowered natural gas prices in these markets.  The conspirators sought to eliminate competition, take advantage of electric deregulation, 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
final, as of 3 a.m..... 
Greg -- We are scheduled to tape a video message to employees today from 1 to 2 p.m.  This will run in the ""Up Front"" feature on the intranet.  It is a brief video message (two to three minutes) from executives to employees about current issues and topics at Enron.  Ken Lay has done the first two videos, one about the Sept. 11 attacks and the second about the Chairman's Award.  We would like you to record a message about third quarter earnings and, specifically, about how the company will move forward.   The video will be available for employees to access on Wednesday.  The following is a draft outline for the video: Enron has had phenomenal continued growth.  Our third quarter earnings, announced yesterday, marked the 23rd consecutive 	quarter we have met or exceeded expectations.  Our earnings of $0.43 per share was exactly on target with the analysts' 	consensus. Our core business is solid, strong and growing.  Earnings in our core businesses are up 26% from third quarter a year ago. We also announced a number of one-time charges this quarter.  Ken Lay, Mark Frevert and I have spent the last few months 	conducting a comprehensive review of our businesses, and we have decided to remove some of the clouds that have obscured 	the excellent results of our core businesses.  You should have received a memo discussing our earnings in detail. But I want to tell you about how the future looks and how we're moving forward.... Detail.... Detail.... We will discuss the outlook for the company in greater detail at the All-Employee Meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 23 at 10 a.m. 	Houston time.  The meeting will be webcast for employees outside Houston.  Hope to see you there. We will tape in 50M05.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen 
This is the issue of concern Vance raised regarding Arthur Andersen... Business; Financial Desk SEC Examining 40 Large Firms for Accounting Fraud NEIL ROLAND BLOOMBERG NEWS 07/07/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition C-3 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating about 40 large companies for accounting fraud, and many of these inquiries focus on the companies' top executives, the SEC's chief law-enforcement official said. ""A lot of the fraud seems to be resulting from executives feeling pressure to beat stock analysts' expectations,"" SEC Enforcement Director Richard H. Walker said in an interview Friday. The SEC is conducting about 260 accounting fraud investigations, about 2 1/2 times the number of such cases that were filed last year, Walker said. In last year's cases, charges were filed against 19 chief executives and 19 chief financial officers, SEC data show. Among the large companies that have disclosed that they are under investigation are Xerox Corp., ConAgra Foods Inc. and Lucent Technologies Inc. Walker said the number of investigations of large companies this year represents a big jump over last year, though he said the agency didn't have an exact count of 2000 probes of major firms. More than half the SEC cases in which charges were filed recently allege that companies reported revenue in the wrong period, usually in an attempt to inflate lagging quarterly earnings, Walker said. Accounting executives have said companies often have to interpret dated SEC reporting rules that don't easily apply to changing business conditions, leaving corporations vulnerable to second-guessing by regulators. But regulators argue that companies and their auditors may be stretching accounting rules too far simply to appease analysts and investors. Former SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt, who left the agency in February, made financial fraud the agency's chief enforcement priority during the last couple of years of his tenure. Levitt said executives engage in a ""game of nods and winks"" with analysts in an attempt to prop up their companies' stock prices. Walker had said Levitt's departure wouldn't affect the agency's investigative priorities. Last month, the SEC filed fraud charges against Arthur Andersen, which agreed to pay $7 million to settle allegations it issued false audit reports about Waste Management Inc. for five years. The accounting crackdown comes amid intensifying scrutiny of Wall Street analysts' power to influence stock prices. The government also is probing how major brokerages allocated hot initial public stock offerings in the heyday of the tech-stock boom of 1999 and early 2000. Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Business; Financial Desk Accounting Firm Fine a Record Probe: Arthur Andersen agrees to pay $7 million civil penalty in case involving audits of Waste Management. From Reuters 06/20/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition C-3 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company WASHINGTON -- Accounting giant Arthur Andersen agreed to pay $7 million to settle charges it filed false and misleading audit reports of Waste Management Inc. in which the No. 1 U.S. trash-hauler overstated income by more than $1 billion, federal regulators said Tuesday. The fine was the largest-ever civil penalty against a Big 5 accounting firm, said the Securities and Exchange Commission in announcing the settlement against Arthur Andersen and four of its current or former partners. Publicly traded companies are required to hire an accounting firm to go over books using generally accepted accounting principles. The firms are supposed to raise any concerns with management and issue opinions about the audits. Arthur Andersen, which did not admit or deny the SEC charges, examined Waste Management's books from 1992 through 1996, and issued audit reports that falsely claimed that the statements had been prepared using generally accepted standards, the SEC said. The agency added that the Waste Management financial statements that Arthur Andersen blessed had overstated the Houston-based trash company's pretax income by more than $1 billion. ""Arthur Andersen and its partners failed to stand up to company management and thereby betrayed their ultimate allegiance to Waste Management's shareholders and the investing public,"" said Richard Walker, the SEC's top cop. In addition to the $7-million fine, Arthur Andersen agreed to what the SEC said was the first anti-fraud injunction in more than 20 years against an accounting giant. It also agreed to be censured. ""This settlement allows the firm and its partners to close a very difficult chapter and move on,"" Chicago-based Arthur Andersen said in a statement. ""The allegations underlying the settlement are limited to one client and reflect work that is in some cases more than seven years old,"" it added. Arthur Andersen has served as Waste Management's auditors since before it became a public company in 1971. The company merged in 1998 with USA Waste Services Inc., and the surviving entity took the Waste Management name. Arthur Andersen still audits its books, a Waste Management spokeswoman said. The company said in a statement that Tuesday's settlement stemmed from an SEC investigation of the ""old"" Waste Management's 1998 restatement of annual financial documents from 1993 through 1996 that were audited by Arthur Andersen. Business; Financial Desk BRIEFLY / ACCOUNTING Andersen to Settle Sunbeam Shareholders' Suit Associated Press 05/02/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition C-4 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company Accounting firm Andersen has agreed to pay $110 million to Sunbeam Corp. shareholders to settle a fraud lawsuit concerning its work for the struggling appliance maker. The settlement is the second-largest ever paid by an accounting firm in a securities lawsuit, said Robert Kornreich, an attorney for shareholders. Boca Raton, Fla.-based Sunbeam, maker of Sunbeam, Oster and other appliances, has battled shareholder lawsuits and has been investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission for its accounting practices. Sunbeam's stock became virtually worthless after the company was forced to restate its profit and losses for the six quarters before former Chairman Al Dunlap was fired in 1998. Andersen, formerly called Arthur Andersen, denied any wrongdoing but said it decided to settle for business reasons. The settlement covers at least 10,000 shareholders who bought options in 1997 and 1998. 
Please review the revised attached press release, which we would like to send out as soon as possible.  Please call Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached is a new draft press release.  First thing in the morning, we need to discuss whether to release this.  Please contact Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
We've prepared the attached draft press release for possible issuance Monday in conjunction with the 10Q filing.  Wilmer Cutler has reviewed the release, but they do not want to include a quote.  Please let me know your views and if you have any changes. Thank you. Karen 713-853-9757 
How about this... There was no recognizable change in counterparties.  No one significant has dropped off.  We can't identify individuals who might not be transacting with us.  The transaction volume is still within the normal range, given the normal daily and counterparty variability (30-day rolling average of more than 5,500 transactions with a notional value of more than $2.7 billion). 
Please review the attached press release, which we'd like to issue as soon as possible this morning.  Please confirm that we have, in fact, closed on the $450 million, and let me know if you have any additional comments. Thank you. Karen 713-853-9757 
A full list of articles will be sent on Monday, but here is some initial co= verage from yesterday and today... IN THE MONEY: Enron - From Energy Trader To Spinmeister By Carol S. Remond 11/23/2001 Dow Jones News Service=20 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 A Dow Jones Newswires Column=20 (This column was originally published Wednesday.)=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- With the value of its stock continuing to plummet, E= nron Corp. (ENE) tried to put on a good face Wednesday by issuing a press r= elease touting, among other things, increased liquidity. The problem is that most of the so-called news was three days old, recycled= from the company's latest quarterly filing.=20 And investors weren't fooled by the release. Although the stock of the emba= ttled Houston energy trader regained some ground immediately after the rele= ase, climbing to $5.35 a share from $4.60, it quickly gave up most of its g= ains. One hour after the release, Enron stock was back trading at $4.98 a s= hare, down more than 28% on the day.=20 ""They had to say something, but really didn't have any new news. It's quite= incredible,"" said a Wall Street analyst covering Enron.=20 Amid mounting fears that Enron's credit woes could thwart its plan to merge= with rival Dynegy Inc. (DYN), a merger that many see as the only way for E= nron to avoid possible bankruptcy, Enron began its press release by announc= ing that ""it has closed on the remaining $450 million of a previously annou= nced $1 billion in secured credit lines...""=20 Great news, given the way Enron has been burning through cash. Except that = investors who took time to read Enron's filing with the Securities and Exch= ange Commission on Monday already knew that ""on November 19, 2001, Enron cl= osed a $450 million new secured line of credit, which will mature in the fo= urth quarter of 2002."" Readers of the company's 10-Q also knew that the $45= 0 million credit was secured by the assets of Enron's Northern Natural Gas = Co.=20 Meanwhile, the real news everyone was waiting for, an announcement about wh= ether a $690 million loan due next Tuesday had been extended, has yet to be= finalized.=20 Enron said in its release that it expected that an extension to mid-Decembe= r would be formalized soon.=20 Separately, people familiar with the matter said J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. an= d Citigroup Inc. continue to work with Enron to extend the maturity of the = syndicated loan, which contains a clause that, unbeknownst to many, was tri= ggered by Enron's ratings downgrade to ""BBB-"" by Standard & Poor's Corp. ea= rlier this month. The clause stipulated that Enron would have to repay the = $690 million note on November 27 if it didn't post collateral.=20 Those people said that the syndicated loan, which is built inside a structu= red vehicle used to finance minority interests in power and energy sectors = around the world, would likely be extended to the middle of 2002 when other= bank loans to Enron come due. About $1.75 billion of Enron's $3.5 billion = in syndicated bank loans come due in May 2002 and will likely need to be re= structured.=20 About $250 million of the assets securing the $690 million loan are in the = process of being sold and will be used to pay down the loan, reducing the o= utstanding portion of the loan that will need to be restructured, according= to the people familiar with the terms.=20 Meanwhile, Dynegy also tried to rally, although somewhat halfheartedly, inv= estors around its plan to acquire Enron's stock. Dynegy said it was encoura= ged by reports that Enron closed on its remaining $450 million credit facil= ity and news of the extension of the $690 million loan. Under the terms of = the acquisition, Enron holders would receive 0.2685 Dynegy share for each E= nron share.=20 Investors, however, remain more circumspect, unmoved by the whopping 104% r= isk premium currently attached to the merger. (That's how much investors bu= ying Enron shares would make if the deal was closing Wednesday.)=20 Aside from continued worries about how much bad news may still come, analys= ts and traders appear particularly concerned with Enron's liquidity, or lac= k thereof, going forward.=20 ""We're having a hard time believing that this new credit infusion (from the= banks), even with the $1.5 billion from Dynegy, will provide enough liquid= ity for Enron,"" one risk arbitrageur at a New York hedge fund said.=20 As part of the merger agreement between Dynegy and Enron, Chevron Texaco, w= hich owns 26% of Dynegy, already injected $1.5 billion into Enron. Another = $1 billion is expected upon closing of the deal.=20 Carol S. Remond, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2074; carol.remond@dowjones.c= om ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 USA: Houston economy seen weathering major layoffs. By Ellen Chang 11/23/2001 Reuters English News Service=20 (C) Reuters Limited 2001.=20 HOUSTON, Nov 23 (Reuters) - Houston's economy, buffered by a broad and dive= rse tax base, should be able to weather thousands of layoffs from some of t= he city's major corporations, including energy powerhouse Enron Corp., econ= omists and analysts said.=20 Financially ailing Enron Corp. , which has 21,000 employees worldwide and i= s in talks to be bought by Houston-based rival Dynegy Inc. , is the third m= ajor employer in the city to announce severe financial problems in recent m= onths. Analysts expect layoffs if the merger occurs. Continental announced a layoff of 3,000 employees after the Sept. 11 attack= s and Hewlett-Packard Co.'s plan to buy Compaq Computer Corp. will, if fina= lized, result in 15,000 layoffs at the two companies. Compaq also announced= 8,000 layoffs worldwide in July.=20 ""It's fair to say that the potential layoffs at Enron and the layoffs at Co= ntinental, taken alone, are negative factors, although probably small in th= e grand scope of the Houston economy,"" said Phil Scheps, director of Housto= n's finance and administration department.=20 Since last month when Enron became a target of a Securities and Exchange Co= mmission investigation into financial dealings with partnerships, the energ= y giant's market share has steadily eroded.=20 While neither Enron nor Dynegy have given any indication of the number of l= ayoffs that could hit Houston, Barton Smith, director of the Institute for = Regional Forecasting at the University of Houston, said the layoffs ""will b= e spread out over a long period of time and will not be excessive.""=20 Robin Kapiloff, an analyst at Moody's Investors Service, said the city's ef= forts to diversify its economy over the past decade will protect its revenu= e collections, even as some of the city's biggest employers suffer. ""We're = watching to see where things go now,"" she said.=20 Alex Fraser, a director at Standard & Poor's, said the ratings agency isn't= concerned about Houston's credit position at this point. ""While Enron is c= ertainly a large player and prominent corporation, we're unclear on what th= e impact would be.""=20 While the fourth largest city in the country experienced a bit of a slowdow= n since the Sept. 11 attacks, Houston has outperformed the rest of the nati= on.=20 With a tax base of $87.3 billion in 2001, Houston is also buffered by the T= exas Medical Center, the city's largest employer. Next year the city's tax = base is estimated to grow to $95 billion.=20 Still, the national recession, energy price weakness in general, and the in= itial loss of consumer confidence related to the attacks has caused the cit= y to reduce its estimate of sales tax growth to 1.5 percent from 5 percent.= That revised estimate equals a $13 million reduction in the city's $1.4 bi= llion budget.=20 But the city's property tax revenue has not been affected. Only a small cha= nge in property tax collections is expected in 2002 because valuations are = based on Jan. 1 data and for most of 2001, real estate growth was very larg= e, Scheps said.=20 While recent economic indicators appear positive, and consumer confidence h= as quickly rebounded, a better read on the strength of Houston's tax revenu= e collections will be available in February when the city receives data for= the December holiday season, Scheps said. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Meeting in Singapore to discuss Enron's arbitration proceedings against Ind= ian state 11/23/2001 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 NEW DELHI, India (AP) - A panel of arbitrators will meet in Singapore on Sa= turday to discuss legal action by Enron Corp. against the western Indian st= ate of Maharashtra, an Enron official said.=20 The Houston-based company has a 65 percent stake in the Dabhol Power Projec= t in western India, and is locked in a dispute with the Maharashtra State E= lectricity Board over unpaid electricity charges. The Singapore meeting is likely to be followed by arbitration in a London c= ourt, Dow Jones Newswires reported, quoting an unidentified Enron official = on Friday.=20 The company suspended operation of the power plant in May and now plans to = withdraw from India.=20 Enron has invested about dlrs 1 billion in equity of the 2,184 megawatt of = power project, the largest ever foreign investment in India.=20 Enron sold electricity produced from naphtha to its sole customer, the gove= rnment-owned power utility in Maharashtra, which found the costs too high.= =20 The company also served notice to the federal government for not honoring a= contract that required the government it to cover the Maharashtra state po= wer utility's unpaid dues.=20 Earlier this year, Enron's chairman Kenneth Lay wrote to Indian Prime Minis= ter Atal Bihari Vajpayee threatening to sue the government for up to dlrs 5= billion if it did not resolve the dispute.=20 Dabhol Power Co. initiated arbitration against the state government for not= honoring guarantees on power bills due for December 2000 and January, this= year.=20 The panel, which has been appointed by the Dabhol Power Company and the Mah= arashtra state government, includes an independent observer.=20 (dj-rkm, ng-kh) ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron SEC filing contained information Dynegy was unaware of - report 11/23/2001 AFX News=20 (c) 2001 by AFP-Extel News Ltd=20 NEW YORK (AFX) - Monday's SEC filing by Enron's Corp contained information = that proposed buyer Dynegy Inc had not known about, the Wall Street Journal= quoted a person familiar with the merger plans as saying.=20 Dynegy representatives plan to work through the weekend evaluating the impo= rtance of this new information as part of the company's due diligence on En= ron, the source said, without specifying what the new information was.=20 In the filing, Enron disclosed hundreds of millions of dollars of potential= additional write-offs as well as the possibility that its weakening financ= ial condition could force it to repay more than 2 bln usd in loans by the e= nd of the year. Dynegy announced Wednesday that it is working to accelerate regulatory appr= ovals required to complete the acquisition in accordance with the previousl= y announced agreement.=20 The Journal quoted analysts as saying Dynegy is coming under increasing pre= ssure to renegotiate or walk away from the deal.=20 It also cited Fitch director Ralph Pellecchia as saying that, without the D= ynegy acquisition and continued support from its bankers and customers, an = Enron bankruptcy-court filing ""is highly possible"".=20 jms For more information and to contact AFX: www.afxnews.com and www.afxpre= ss.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy's Decision to Buy Enron Hits Crossroads Amid Rising Financial Woes 11/23/2001 Dow Jones Business News=20 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Even as it reiterated its intention to purchase Enron Corp., Dynegy Inc. is= coming under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from the mult= ibillion-dollar deal, Friday's Wall Street Journal reported.=20 The pressure is stemming from the continuing slide in the price of Enron (E= NE) shares and the mounting financial problems at the Houston energy-tradin= g company, the nation's biggest marketer of electricity and natural gas. Du= ring the past month, Enron has taken a $1 billion write-off of assets, revi= sed downward the earnings of the past several years and taken a $1.2 billio= n reduction in shareholder equity. The problems have been due largely to dealings Enron had with private partn= erships, run by some of its own executives, under investigation by the Secu= rities and Exchange Commission. In an SEC filing Monday, Enron disclosed hu= ndreds of millions of potential additional write-offs as well as the possib= ility that its weakening financial condition could force it to repay more t= han $2 billion in loans by the end of the year.=20 As of 4 p.m. Wednesday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Enron = shares fell $1.98, or 28%, to $5.01 each after having dropped 23% Tuesday. = In excess of 115 million shares traded Wednesday, more than four times the = volume of any other Big Board stock. Enron's bonds also again traded sharpl= y lower, market observers said.=20 The turmoil spilled over to Dynegy's stock, which also was among the most a= ctively traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of 4 p.m. Wednesday, Dyne= gy (DYN) shares fell $1.94 to $39.76 each.=20 On Wednesday, Dynegy issued a statement in which Chairman and Chief Executi= ve Chuck Watson said his company was working ""to accelerate the regulatory = approvals required to complete the merger in accordance with the previously= announced agreement"" though it continued to perform ""due diligence"" on Enr= on.=20 Under the merger agreement, Dynegy has opportunities to renegotiate or walk= away from the deal if Enron's financial and legal problems become severe e= nough. However, some observers said it can be difficult to invoke these so-= called material adverse change clauses. They point to a decision earlier th= is year by a Delaware Chancery Court judge who forced Tyson Foods Inc. to c= omplete a planned purchase of IBP Inc. even though Tyson, a Springdale, Ark= ., food-products company, had wanted to cancel the transaction because of a= drop in IBP's earnings and accounting problems at an IBP unit.=20 Dynegy officials didn't return calls seeking comment. To complete the deal,= two-thirds of Dynegy shareholders and a majority of Enron shareholders wou= ld have to give their approval. No dates for those votes have been set.=20 One person familiar with the merger plans said the SEC filing Monday by Enr= on contained information Dynegy hadn't known about. Dynegy representatives = planned to work through the weekend evaluating the importance of this new i= nformation as part of the company's due diligence, this person said. It cou= ldn't be determined what the new information was.=20 The merger agreement, announced Nov. 9, calls for Dynegy to exchange 0.2685= share for each of Enron's roughly 850 million fully diluted shares, giving= the purchase a value of about $9 billion at Dynegy's current stock price. = However, from a price standpoint, the deal is appearing less attractive to = Dynegy.=20 On the day of the merger announcement, Enron shares were trading at about $= 8.63 each, or about 83% of the purchase price under the exchange ratio. As = of Wednesday, Enron's market price was only about 47% of the merger-formula= price. Such a sharp deterioration is unusual following a merger announceme= nt, when the stock price of the company being acquired generally begins tra= ding relatively close to the offering price.=20 Sentiment among Wall Street analysts also is turning against the merger. In= itially, many analysts lauded the merger as a move that would rescue Enron = and provide a major boost to Houston-based Dynegy. Dynegy and Enron officia= ls have predicted that the merger, supposed to be completed late next year,= would significantly and immediately increase Dynegy's earnings.=20 Now analysts are challenging that assumption. Ron Barone, managing director= at UBS Warburg LLC, said he believes that because of Enron's financial pro= blems, a combined company would actually have lower earnings next year than= Dynegy would have by itself. Mr. Barone said he thinks a ""likely scenario""= is that the merger formula will be renegotiated sharply down to about 0.15= Dynegy share for each Enron share.=20 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.=20 All Rights Reserved. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Post Investing Enron casts pall on analysts: 'Everyone had a buy on the stock' all the way= down Steve Maich Financial Post, with files from news services 11/23/2001 National Post=20 National IN1 / Front (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved.=20 For thousands of people burned by Enron Corp.'s spectacular implosion, it m= ust have been tough to feel thankful yesterday.=20 Over the past month, the Houston-based company has admitted its earnings re= ports going back four years are useless, written down billions in worthless= investments, and fired its chief financial officer in a failed bid to shor= e up its plunging stock. The slide in Enron's stock (ENE/NYSE) has already wiped out US$67-billion i= n shareholder wealth. Now it may lose its last lifeline, a US$7.93-billion = takeover offer from Dynegy Inc.=20 Enron's fall is proving to be more than just a cautionary tale about sketch= y accounting. The case is raising serious questions about the responsibilit= y of analysts who strongly recommended a stock that many now admit they nev= er really understood.=20 ""The public isn't going to trust stock analysts for awhile,"" said Scott Pre= ston, a San Francisco-based analyst with Research Capital Corp. who does no= t cover Enron. ""Every analyst had a buy on the stock. And it's not like the= re was only one little issue there. It's a mess and big brokerages were com= ing out as it was on the way down saying put this thing in your Grandmother= 's [RRSP].""=20 But Wall Street's embarrassment pales next to the pain of shareholders, inc= luding Enron employees whose pensions were loaded with the stock.=20 ""I have lost my savings, my plans for the future, everything,"" Roy Rinard, = a long-time Enron staffer, said this week as he announced that employees ha= ve banded together for a class-action lawsuit against the company.=20 Several analysts have acknowledged that Enron's financial statements were r= outinely incomprehensible. But with brokerages vying for the millions of do= llars in equity and bond underwriting business Enron provided every year, m= any analysts chose to focus on the company's growth, and failed to ask toug= h questions about its books.=20 Critics say the red flags were waving long ago.=20 The first clear sign of trouble came Aug. 14, when Jeffrey Skilling quit th= e CEO job he took over just seven months earlier, citing personal reasons. = Former chief executive Kenneth Lay reclaimed the job. ""Our business is stro= ng and our growth prospects have never been better,"" Mr. Lay said at the ti= me.=20 In fact, cracks were already appearing in the business. Enron's plan to sta= rt trading capacity on fibre optic networks was a costly failure, and the c= ompany was locked in a prolonged dispute with the Indian government over en= ergy purchases in the region.=20 In October, Enron surprised investors by reporting its first quarterly loss= in more than four years, due in large part to the writedown of US$1-billio= n in bad investments. Within a week, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commi= ssion started investigating Enron's finances.=20 The company soon admitted major accounting errors dating back to 1997. Its = profits had been overstated by US$586-million, or 20%. The company revealed= that some of the investments it had written off were limited partnerships = headed by CFO Andrew Fastow -- a serious breach of good corporate governanc= e. Mr. Fastow was fired, but it didn't stop Enron's descent.=20 The pain may be far from over.=20 Facing a year of regulatory hearings to approve the merger, and a rapidly d= evaluing asset in Enron, many fear Dynegy will walk away from the deal. If = that happens, Enron may be doomed.=20 The stock closed Wednesday at US$5.01, down 93% this year. Dynegy closed at= US$39.76, valuing the Enron offer at US$10.67 a share. The fact that Enron= 's stock is trading so far below the offer price is a sure sign that invest= ors doubt it will proceed, at least not at the current offer price.=20 All this has left investors wondering how so many could have been so wrong,= about so much. And how can so many continue to endorse the stock?=20 Of the 18 analysts that cover the stock, 10 still rate it a ""buy."" Goldman = Sachs analyst David Fleisher removed Enron from his recommended list this w= eek, but only after his firm was excluded from the banking syndicate arrang= ing the Dynegy deal.=20 Carol Coale, an analyst at Prudential Securities, dropped Enron from ""buy"" = to ""sell"" this week, citing its long history of spotty disclosure, and ofte= n evasive answers to questions. She acknowledged to clients that her downgr= ade is ""too little, too late"" for many. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Post: World Enron looking for US$1.5B boost to balance sheet: Expects cash from buyout = firms, private equity investors Robert Clow Financial Times 11/23/2001 National Post=20 National FP12 (c) National Post 2001. All Rights Reserved.=20 NEW YORK - Officials working to shore up Enron Corp.'s balance sheet said y= esterday the struggling energy trader hoped to receive capital injections o= f more than US$1.5-billion as early as next week.=20 Enron is in talks about investments of US$250-million with JP Morgan Chase = and Citigroup and is also hoping to raise at least US$1-billion from privat= e equity investors. People close to Enron declined to comment on which buyout firms might wish = to invest in Enron, but the Blackstone Group, which was reported to be talk= ing to the company before Dynegy Inc. made its US$9-billion rescue bid, is = understood not to be talking to Enron any longer.=20 Members of the 20-strong bank lending group, led by JP Morgan Chase and Cit= igroup, are being asked to defer the maturities of their upcoming debt unti= l after completion of the merger.=20 The move comes as reports from Goldman Sachs & Co. and Fitch, the credit ra= ting agency, raised questions about the company's cash flow and its medium-= term viability.=20 David Fleischer, a Goldman Sachs analyst, argued that cash balances were in= adequate to meet US$2.8-billion of debt obligations falling due before the = end of the year. People close to Enron say that nearly US$1-billion of that= debt has already been restructured.=20 The Fitch report said that if the Dynegy deal was not completed Enron would= struggle to meet US$9-billion of obligations, due before the end of next y= ear.=20 People close to Enron insisted Dynegy remained committed to the merger and = played down talk of renegotiation.=20 Dynegy would shortly issue a statement reasserting its commitment to the de= al, they predicted.=20 But bankers acknowledged the fate of the Dynegy deal was largely irrelevant= in terms of the company's immediate liquidity problems.=20 The company has raised about US$7-billion in cash, enough to cover its oper= ating costs since a US$1.2-billion writedown of shareholder equity plunged = it into crisis on Oct. 16.=20 However, the company's cash flow is being squeezed. The computer screens in= front of energy traders at Enron's London headquarters still glow, even if= they are doing much less business following the U.S. group's financial woe= s.=20 The Belgravia offices house Europe's biggest electricity trader, which acco= unts for about a fifth of all European power contracts, worth roughly (ps)7= 0-billion ($158-billion) last year in British, Nordic and other European ma= rkets.=20 Fears over Enron's credit rating have prompted a sharp fall in its European= electricity trading. Nonetheless, some companies that had previously withd= rawn from buying and selling power with Enron have resumed trading with it = in the short-term market.=20 Few want to risk trading further than a week or two ahead, however, given c= ontinuing doubts over the company's finances. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal WHAT'S NEWS United States Wall Street Journal 11/23/2001 The Globe and Mail=20 Metro B9 ""All material Copyright (c) Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licenso= rs. All rights reserved.""=20 Two Enron Corp. workers are suing the company, claiming it endangered their= retirement funds. The lawsuit, filed in Houston under the Employee Retirem= ent Income Security Act, alleges that Enron encouraged the employees to inv= est more heavily in company stock just before the stock tanked. The lawsuit= was filed by Portland, Ore., utility lineman Roy Rinard and co-worker, Ste= ve Lacey. Enron shares have plunged more than 90 per cent over the past sev= eral months after an accounting controversy that eventually caused it to re= state its earnings since 1997, eliminating more than $580-million (U.S.) of= reported income. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 COMPANIES & FINANCE THE AMERICAS - Enron 'awaiting' capital injections, say= officials. By ROBERT CLOW. 11/23/2001 Financial Times=20 (c) 2001 Financial Times Limited . All Rights Reserved=20 Officials working to shore up Enron's balance sheet yesterday said the stru= ggling energy trader hoped to receive capital injections of more than $1.5b= n as early as next week.=20 Enron is in talks about $250m investments with JP Morgan Chase and Citigrou= p and is also hoping to raise at least $1bn from private equity investors. People close to Enron declined to comment on which buyout firms might wish = to invest in Enron. However, the Blackstone Group, which was reported to be= talking to the company before Dynegy made its $9bn rescue bid, is understo= od no longer to be doing so.=20 Members of the 20-strong bank lending group, led by JP Morgan Chase and Cit= igroup, are being asked to defer the maturities of their upcoming debt unti= l after the completion of the merger.=20 The moves comes as reports from Goldman Sachs and Fitch, the credit rating = agency, raised questions about the company's cash flow and its medium-term = viability.=20 David Fleischer, a Goldman Sachs analyst, argued that cash balances were in= adequate to meet $2.8bn of debt obligations falling due before the end of t= he year.=20 People close to Enron say that nearly $1bn of that debt has already been re= structured.=20 The Fitch report said that if the Dynegy deal was not completed, Enron woul= d struggle to meet $9bn of obligations due before the end of next year.=20 People close to Enron insisted that Dynegy remained committed to the merger= and played down talk of renegotiation.=20 Dynegy would shortly issue a statement reasserting its commitment to the de= al, they predicted.=20 (c) Copyright Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved.=20 http://www.ft.com. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy's Bid for Enron Appears Less Appealing --- Merger Deal Loses Luster = as Shares Tumble --- Acquisition Target Faces Numerous Earnings Problems By Rebecca Smith and John R. Emshwiller Staff Reporters 11/23/2001 The Wall Street Journal Europe=20 4 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Even as it reiterated its intention to purchase Enron Corp., Dynegy Inc. is= coming under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from the mult= i-billion-dollar deal.=20 The pressure is coming from the continuing slide in the price of Enron shar= es and the mounting financial problems at the Houston energy-trading compan= y, the biggest marketer of electricity and natural gas in the U.S. In the p= ast month, Enron has taken a $1 billion (1.1 billion euros) write-off of as= sets, restated downward the past several years of earnings and taken a $1.2= billion reduction in shareholder equity. The problems owe largely to deali= ngs Enron had with private partnerships run by some of its own executives n= ow under investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In d= ocuments filed with the SEC on Monday, Enron disclosed hundreds of millions= of potential additional write-offs as well as the possibility that its wea= kening financial condition could force it to repay more than $2 billion in = loans by the end of the year. On the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday, Enron shares were down 28% at $5.= 01 each, after having dropped some 23% on Tuesday. There was no trading Thu= rsday. More than 115 million shares changed hands Wednesday, more than four= times the volume of any other Big Board stock. Enron's bonds also fell, tr= aders said.=20 The turmoil spilled over to Dynegy's shares, which were also among the most= actively traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Dynegy shares were at $39.= 76 each on Wednesday, down $1.94.=20 Dynegy Chairman and Chief Executive Chuck Watson said his company was worki= ng ""to accelerate the regulatory approvals required to complete the merger = in accordance with the previously announced agreement"" though it continued = doing due diligence review on Enron. Under the merger agreement, Dynegy has= opportunities to renegotiate or walk away from the deal if Enron's financi= al and legal problems become severe enough.=20 Dynegy officials didn't return calls seeking comment. To consummate the dea= l, two-thirds of Dynegy shareholders and a majority of Enron shareholders w= ould have to give their approval. No dates for those votes have been set.= =20 The merger agreement, announced Nov. 9, calls for Dynegy to exchange 0.2685= of its shares for each of Enron's roughly 850 million fully diluted shares= , giving the purchase a value of about $9 billion at Dynegy's current stock= price.=20 However, from a price point of view, the deal is looking ever less attracti= ve to Dynegy.=20 On the day of the merger announcement, Enron shares were trading at about $= 8.63 a share, or about 83% of the purchase price under the exchange ratio. = As of Wednesday, Enron's market price was only about 47% of the merger-form= ula price.=20 Such a sharp deterioration is unusual following a merger announcement, when= the stock price of the company being acquired generally begins trading rel= atively close to the offering price.=20 Sentiment among Wall Street analysts is also turning against the merger. In= itially, many analysts lauded the merger as a move that would rescue Enron = and provide a major boost to Dynegy. Dynegy and Enron executives have predi= cted that the merger, which is supposed to be completed late next year, wou= ld significantly and immediately increase Dynegy's earnings.=20 Now analysts are challenging that assumption. Ron Barone, managing director= at UBS Warburg LLC, said that because of Enron's financial problems a comb= ined company would actually have lower earnings next year than Dynegy would= have by itself. Mr. Barone said a ""likely scenario"" is that the merger for= mula will be renegotiated sharply lower to about 0.15 Dynegy shares for eac= h Enron share.=20 Such a move wouldn't be without precedent. According to a person familiar w= ith the merger negotiations, Dynegy reduced the exchange formula at least o= nce prior to the Nov. 9 announcement because of Enron's rapidly sinking sto= ck price, which at the beginning of this year was above $80 a share.=20 In perhaps the most significant sign of the turning tide on Wall Street, Go= ldman Sachs analyst David Fleischer lowered his ratings on Enron and Dynegy= . A longtime Enron fan, Mr. Fleischer issued a report expressing doubts tha= t the merger would help Dynegy's earnings and whether Enron could ""recover = the significant business that has been lost"" in its energy trading operatio= ns. ""The Enron machine continues to sputter,"" wrote Mr. Fleischer.=20 Some observers say that if Dynegy walked away from the deal or tried to sig= nificantly renegotiate the terms, Enron might be pushed into bankruptcy. Wi= thout the Dynegy acquisition and continued support from its bankers and cus= tomers, an Enron request for bankruptcy protection from creditors ""is highl= y possible,"" said Ralph Pellecchia, a senior director at Fitch, a credit-ra= tings agency. On Wednesday, Fitch maintained its credit rating on Enron at = just one notch above noninvestment grade, or ""junk"" status. But Fitch also = said that Enron's trading partners had made ""significant cash collateral ca= lls"" in recent days that are ""well in excess of previous expectations,"" con= tributing to liquidity pressures.=20 Among the advisers Enron has hired during its current crisis is the law fir= m of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, which has a specialty in bankruptcy and corpor= ate restructuring. One energy trader said Wednesday that some colleagues ha= d even started a betting pool about the timing of a possible Enron bankrupt= cy filing. But he quickly added that he had no knowledge that the company h= as contemplated such a step.=20 Asked about a possible bankruptcy filing, an Enron spokeswoman said the com= pany expects the Dynegy deal to go through and therefore doesn't expect to = have to look at alternatives to the merger. Since the merger announcement, = Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay has said that his company had alternatives to th= e Dynegy deal, but he has declined to identify them.=20 ---=20 Thaddeus Herrick in Houston contributed to this article. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron Europe carries on trading. By ANDREW TAYLOR, UTILITIES CORRESPONDENT. 11/23/2001 Financial Times - FT.com=20 (c) 2001 Financial Times Limited . All Rights Reserved=20 The screens in front of energy traders at Enron's London headquarters are s= till glowing, even if they are doing much less business following the US gr= oup's financial woes.=20 The Belgravia offices house Europe's biggest electricity trader, which acco= unts for about a fifth of all European power contracts, worth roughly GBP70= bn ($99bn) last year in UK, Nordic and other European markets. Fears over Enron's credit rating have prompted a sharp fall in its European= electricity trading. Nonetheless, some companies which had previously with= drawn from buying and selling power with Enron have resumed trading with it= in the short-term market.=20 Few want to risk trading further than a week or two ahead, however, given c= ontinuing doubts over the company's finances. Whether Enron can survive dep= ends on the commitment of Dynegy, the rival US energy group, to its $9bn re= scue takeover announced two weeks ago.=20 John Sherriff, president and chief executive of Enron Europe, was anxious o= n Thursday to show that it was still ""business as usual"" for his energy tra= ders.=20 He estimates they are transacting about 70 per cent of the number of contra= cts they would normally expect, but only about 40 per cent by volume. Rival= traders believe volumes may have fallen much further.=20 Contracts ranging from a day ahead to many years hence are used as a hedge = to protect generators and retailers from risks of sudden price changes.=20 As financial instruments they are traded many times over. As a result, the = total value of the transactions is much higher than the cost of the actual = electricity delivered. However, the transactions play an increasingly impor= tant role in oiling competitive electricity markets.=20 Rival European power companies and traders are anxious that Enron should no= t fail.=20 Brian Senior, director of trading and asset management at Innogy, the UK ar= m of the demerged National Power, said recent transactions had shown there = was sufficient liquidity in European markets to cope if Enron disappeared.= =20 Traders were more concerned that Enron might not be able to honour existing= long-term contracts. ""This could have a domino effect, putting pressure on= other companies,"" said Mr Senior.=20 US power companies failed in similar circumstances after the Ohio-based Fed= eral Energy defaulted on power contracts in 1998, he said.=20 Martin Stanley, president of European energy trading for TXU, another large= US energy group, said: ""We are watching the situation carefully and would = want to do nothing to add to Enron's problems by making unhelpful comments = about their current position.""=20 Mr Sherriff said: ""Counter-parties are generally being very supportive.""=20 Innogy said it had resumed limited trading with the US group but was ""watch= ing the situation carefully"". TXU said: ""We are still trading with Enron in= the short-term market but less than we were.""=20 The Nordic market is one of the most active for power trading. US groups su= ch as Enron, TXU and Dynegy have helped to expand the UK market, while Enro= n has a strong base in Germany.=20 (c) Copyright Financial Times Group.=20 http://www.ft.com. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 What's News Business and Finance Business and Finance 11/23/2001 The Wall Street Journal=20 A1 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 DYNEGY IS COMING under increasing pressure to renegotiate or walk away from= its deal to acquire Enron, due to the slide in the price of Enron shares a= nd the mounting financial problems at the energy-trading company. Separatel= y, Enron has been sued by members of its employee-retirement plan, which ha= s suffered losses because of Enron's plunging stock price. In trading Wedne= sday, Enron shares tumbled 28% to $5.01.=20 --- The economy could be declared officially in recession as early as today. Th= e move comes amid signs that the recession already may be bottoming out, wi= th initial jobless claims declining.=20 ---=20 Norway offered to cut its oil production, becoming the latest independent e= xporter to succumb to OPEC's wishes in an effort to prop up world oil price= s.=20 ---=20 WMC rejected a $6 billion takeover bid from Alcoa. The Australian mining co= mpany said it plans to spin off part of the firm in hopes of fetching a hig= her price.=20 ---=20 Retail Brand is set to buy Brooks Brothers from Marks & Spencer for about $= 225 million, less than a third of what the U.K. firm paid in 1988 for the m= en's retailer.=20 ---=20 The FDA approved Lilly's drug Xigris to treat septic infections, a medicine= Wall Street believes could produce sales of more than $1 billion annually.= =20 ---=20 Argentina extended by one week a deadline for institutional investors to te= nder their holdings in a giant debt swap.=20 ---=20 UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui announced a combined $24 billion in write-offs, as = investors pressure Japanese banks to purge their balance sheets of bad loan= s.=20 ---=20 Archer-Daniels, Cargill and Riceland agreed to sell about $25 million of fa= rm goods to Cuba, the first commercial food deal by the U.S. and Havana in = 40 years.=20 ---=20 Microsoft's general counsel said he plans to retire at the end of the fisca= l year. William Neukom will be succeeded by Brad Smith, deputy general coun= sel.=20 ---=20 Goldman Sachs could slash as many as 1,000 jobs due to the Wall Street slum= p, a Merrill Lynch analyst said.=20 ---=20 CIBC agreed to pay at least $297.8 million to acquire Merrill's Canadian br= okerage and asset-management operations.=20 ---=20 NTT reported a $2.13 billion loss for its fiscal first half, due to the Jap= anese company's losses on overseas investments and domestic restructuring c= osts.=20 ---=20 South Korea's economy grew by 1.8% in the third quarter, showing a surprisi= ng resilience during the global slump.=20 ---=20 CSX tentatively settled litigation from a 1987 chemical-car fire that had l= ed to an initial $2.5 billion judgment against the firm.=20 ---=20 Markets --=20 Stocks: NYSE vol. 1,021,074,890 shares, Nasdaq vol. 1,556,321,162. Dow Jone= s industrials 9834.68, off 66.70; Nasdaq 1875.05, off 5.46; S&P 500 index 1= 137.03, off 5.63.=20 Bonds:(2pm) 10-yr Treas off 25/32, yld 4.954%; 30-yr Treas off 21/32, yld 5= .351%.=20 Commodities: Oil futures $18.96 a barrel, off $0.19; Dow Jones-AIG futures = index 89.862, off 0.069; DJ spot index 96.62, up 0.42.=20 Dollar: 123.08 yen, up 0.56; 2.2246 marks, up 0.0092; euro 87.92 cents, off= 0.37. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron Faces Suits by 401(k) Plan Participants By Theo Francis and Ellen Schultz Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal 11/23/2001 The Wall Street Journal=20 C1 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Enron Corp., the embattled Houston energy and trading company, has been sue= d by members of its employee-retirement plan, which has suffered losses bec= ause of Enron's plummeting stock price.=20 Two separate lawsuits, filed in federal court in Houston, allege Enron misl= ed participants in its 401(k) retirement plan about the risks of investing = in the company's shares and note that the company forced the employees to r= emain invested in its stock even as the shares fell. Amid growing disclosur= es of financial problems in recent weeks, the company ""locked down"" the ret= irement plan from Oct. 17 to Nov. 19 to make administrative changes, which = prevented employees from selling Enron shares as the share price collapsed. Enron, which recently agreed to be acquired by Dynegy Inc., Houston, becaus= e of mounting financial problems, has seen its stock price fall to $5.01 on= Wednesday from a peak of nearly $90 a share last year. The decline has bee= n costly to participants in Enron's retirement plan because more than 60% o= f the 401(k) assets were invested in Enron shares at the end of last year, = according to one of the suits.=20 The first suit was filed Nov. 13 on behalf of plan participants by Campbell= Harrison & Wright LLP, a Houston law firm, and the second was filed Tuesda= y by Seattle-based Hagens Berman LLP. Both seek class-action certification.= =20 Enron said its corporate policy is not to comment on pending lawsuits. A sp= okeswoman also said the company's 401(k) plan offers participants 18 invest= ment choices, one of which is company stock.=20 The company's stock has fallen amid mounting losses and disclosures that it= had extensive off-balance-sheet dealings with a web of partnerships headed= by former company officials. The Securities and Exchange Commission has la= unched a formal investigation into the company's accounting, and Enron has = said it will restate years of financial information.=20 The suits against Enron are the latest of a series of suits filed against c= ompanies over losses in the company-stock portion of their 401(k) plans. Th= e suits allege the plan trustees breached their fiduciary duties by continu= ing to offer company stock, even after they became aware of serious busines= s problems that would hurt the stock price. All the suits are pending.=20 As with most of these companies, Enron matches employee contributions to th= e 401(k) with shares of Enron stock, and also offers Enron stock as an inve= stment choice, in addition to a variety of mutual funds. About $1.3 billion= of the plan's $2.1 billion in assets was invested in Enron shares at the e= nd of 2000, according to the suit filed by Campbell Harrison.=20 Pamela Tittle, a participant in the 401(k) plan who worked in the finance d= epartment and a named plaintiff in the Enron suit filed by Campbell Harriso= n & Wright, had roughly 2,000 shares of Enron stock in her retirement accou= nt and has suffered losses of about $140,000 as a result of the stock's dec= line. The suit alleges that the trustees of the Enron 401(k) plan violated = their fiduciary duties by not informing plan participants that the company = stock was in peril.=20 The suit filed by Hagens Berman, also alleges that the company failed to wa= rn participants about risks of remaining invested in Enron stock. In additi= on, it accuses Enron of systematically misrepresenting its financial result= s since 1998 in connection with the partnerships under investigation by the= SEC.=20 Roy E. Rinard, a lineman for Enron in Oregon who is a named plaintiff in th= e suit filed by Hagens Berman, has seen the value of his retirement plan fa= ll to $70,000 from $470,000, largely as a result of the decline in Enron's = stock. ""I feel like I have been betrayed,"" Mr. Rinard said in press release= issued by his lawyers. ""I lost my savings, my plans for the future, everyt= hing.""=20 Under federal pension law, companies are allowed to offer their own stock i= n retirement plans, and are allowed to force employees to hold onto the sto= ck. Enron doesn't let employees diversify out of shares they receive as mat= ching contributions to the 401(k) plan until age 50.=20 However, plan trustees are supposed to operate the plan in the best interes= ts of the participants, which includes choosing prudent investments. Genera= lly, to prove that the plan's administrators breached their fiduciary dutie= s, employees must show that the trustees knew the stock was a bad investmen= t. This presents a high hurdle, so it is not surprising that prior lawsuits= over losses in company stock in 401(k) plans have generally come in the wa= ke of allegations of accounting irregularities.=20 Lynn Sarko, one of Ms. Tittle's attorneys with Seattle's Keller Rohrback LL= P, is also co-lead counsel in a similar lawsuit against Lucent Technologies= Inc., Murray Hill, N.J. Another firm representing Ms. Tittle is Dalton Got= to Samson & Kilgard PLC, which is lead counsel in a similar suit against Ik= on Office Solutions Inc., Malvern, Pa. The two law firms are representing M= s. Tittle with Campbell Harrison & Wright.=20 The suits against Lucent and Ikon, like the suit against Enron, allege that= then-current plan trustees kept offering company stock in the plan despite= knowing of serious business problems that would hurt the stock price. Repr= esentatives for Ikon and Lucent say their companies didn't require employee= s to invest in the company stock, and educated employees about the need for= diversification.=20 The suit in which Mr. Rinard is plaintiff notes that on Oct. 17, a day afte= r Enron announced the company was taking a nonrecurring charge totaling $1.= 01 billion in the third quarter, Enron ""locked down"" the 401(k) plan's asse= ts, preventing participants from selling Enron shares. (A ""lock-down"" occur= s when a retirement plan is transferred from one administrator to another, = and generally lasts several weeks, during which time participants can't mak= e changes in their investment choices).=20 The lock-down was lifted on Nov. 19. In the interim, on Nov. 8, Enron annou= nced it would be forced to restate downward its reported financial results = from 1997 through 2000. By the time the lock-down was lifted, as a result o= f all the negative news the shares had fallen to below $9 a share from $32.= 20 on Oct. 17, when the lockup started, Hagens Berman attorney Karl Barth s= aid.=20 ""They were locked into it right when Enron knew it was going to be announci= ng some really bad news,"" Mr. Barth said. ""Mr. Rinard's looking at having n= o retirement savings now. It's a horrible thing to have to start over in yo= 
fyi -- great job! 
Karen, Here is a copy of the story, which is unfortunately quite a bit shorter. Thank you both for your help, and please give a special thanks to Mr. Kean for his extremely helpful comments and analogies. Sincerely, Vibeke Laroi (See attached file: fair power grid.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - fair power grid.doc 
FYI... 
fyi 
fyi 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
ORDER CONSUMER 
fyi... transcript of Gov. Davis' remarks in San Diego today. 
ORDER CONSUMER - GOVERNOR DAVIS CALLS ON FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TO ORDER CONSUMER REFUNDS AND PRICE CAPS.htm 
FYI, Reuters crossed the attached article on Y2K and highlighted Enron's worst case scenario information from our SEC filing .  We can probably expect more articles like this during December.  Our reactive media statement on Enron's 10K remains the same, but the media is likely to run our filing language, as they are looking for ""doomsday"" quotes (I spoke to the Reuters reporter and explained that we complied with the SEC requirements and the worst case scenario was unlikely, yet the reporter still ran 10K quotes rather than a corporate response to the filing.) If you have any questions, please call me. Thanks. Karen, x39757 
FYI - may generate some interest from the media!! 
five years 
fyi... 
five years The note below was sent to the 20 or so reporters that I have been working with on the CA electricity crisis. FYI. Below is a press release we distributed today that details a proposal we have made to San Diego Gas & Electric to manage their entire electricity load (up to 3,300 megawatts) for five years at a fixed price of $60 a megawatt hour.  The proposal was detailed in our comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on their recent proposed solutions to Caifornia. As the release indicates, forward contracting for electricity is a very effective way for the state's utilities to manage the volitility in the state's electricity markets.  With natural gas prices more than doubling since last year and last week being up to seven times higher than last year on the spot market (up to $19 a million BTU vs. an average of about $2.50 in 1999), we feel that its imperative for utilities to take advantage of these contracts so they can manage their own risk  exposure and their customer's risk exposue to this volitility and the associated high prices. (The price of natural gas represents about 90 percent of our plant's operating costs). We signed a forward power contract with PG&E Oct. 30 and Southern Cal Edison Nov. 15 (announced for the first time in the this release).  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission strongly encourages these kind of contracts -- and we hope that we, or other wholesale power marketers, can do more of this kind of business with these utilities and SDG&E in the very near future to bring stability to the state's wholesale electricity market. Our proposal is detailed on pages eight and nine in the FERC filing, which also includes our other positions on the California electricity crisis. These are also detailed on our CA web site at www.Duke-Energy.com/California. For more information, call me at 805-595-4270 or page me at 877-364-5170. (See attached file: Nov 27 release.doc)(See attached file: Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc) - Nov 27 release.doc - Duke Nov. 22 FERC filing.doc 
Calif. power resources will be 3,752 Mw short in 2001 By David Feliciano, BridgeNews Scottsdale, Ariz.--Dec. 7--California resources and reserves for electricity will be 3,752 megawatts short of the anticipated load in 2001, California Independent System Operator (ISO) President and CEO Terry Winter said Thursday at the annual Western Systems Coordinating Council meeting. ""I'm concerned about supply,"" Winter said. ""Without sufficient supply, markets will set socially and politically 
Class Action Lawsuits Alleging Restraint of Trade and Unfair Business Practices Filed Against SoCal Gas, San Diego Gas & Electric, And El Paso Natural Gas LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18 /PRNewswire/  via NewsEdge Corporation  - Two related class action lawsuits have been filed in the California Superior Court in Los Angeles, against Southern California Gas Company, San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company, Sempra Energy (parent of the two utilities), El Paso Natural Gas Co., and other companies related to El Paso Natural Gas. The two lawsuits allege a conspiracy resulting in restraint of trade and unfair competition and unlawful business practices.  The complaints summarize the issue as follows: This action involves a massive conspiracy to eliminate competition in the newly deregulated energy industry that has resulted in endangering California's electrical system and threatening California's economy.  It is perhaps the largest gouging of energy consumers in American history. Southern California's current ""energy crisis"" is not simply the result of ever-increasing demand by a growing population for energy.  Rather, it is the direct result of a conspiracy among the natural gas industry's most powerful Southern California players to preserve and maintain the market dominance that they enjoyed for many years as monopolies subject to regulation.  When the artificial monopoly created by regulation was disassembled, those dominant companies took prompt and illegal action to ensure that they would not lose the benefits of their market power.  Their unlawful collusion has contributed significantly to the recent astronomical increases in the price of natural gas and electricity.  As a result, Southern California customers have had to pay billions of dollars extra for their natural gas and electric needs.  This lawsuit seeks to recover those damages. (Para. 1 and 2 of complaint.) ""In September of 1996, top executives of Southern California Gas Company (""SoCal Gas""), San Diego Gas &amp; Electric (""SDG&amp;E"") and El Paso Natural Gas Corporation (""EPNG"") met at the Embassy Suites Hotel, near Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.  Fearing a new era of open competition and lower prices, these latter day captains of industry gathered secretly to hatch a conspiracy to dominate the unregulated aspects of the natural gas and electricity markets.  At the meeting, these three companies, who together dominate the Southern California natural gas market, illegally agreed not to compete against each other in the Southern California and Baja California natural gas delivery markets.  They also conspired to prevent other pipelines from being built that would have competed against them and lowered natural gas prices in these markets.  The conspirators sought to eliminate competition, take advantage of electric deregulation, 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Davis is saying he's had discussions with us about taking a loss on our debts??  Have we had any such conversations w/ him? ( I told the media yesterday we hadn't been contacted by him...) 
fyi 
FYI, the attached press release announcing a fiber exchange is scheduled to be issued tomorrow by Qwest, however EBS is not named in the release (due to sensitivities with the pending USWest deal).  Under the terms of the exchange,  we gave them access on our Denver-to-Dallas route and we received New Orleans to Jacksonville via Tallahassee; Jacksonville to Charlotte; and Tallahassee to Louisville via Atlanta and Nashville. If you have any questions, please contact me. Thanks. kd 
Karen, Here's the Qwest release that I just left word on your voicemail about. While it doesn't mention Enron, the 1000 mile route spoken to was acquired in a fiber exchange with Enron.  Let's discuss. thx, Kris Caldwell Enron Communications, Inc. Public Relations Manager (503) 886-0269 
Attached is the list compiled by Marathon of ""influentials"" in each of our priority legislative districts (this week, we're only focusing on Burton, Bowen, Hertzberg, Keeley and Cox).  Please review the list and let me know ASAP if you know anyone on the list and would be willing to make calls. Thanks. kd - List of targeted legislators April 2 2001.xls 
Steve/Rick/Paul -- In case Bev didn't mention the following to you, I thought you'd like to see the great feedback we got on Sue's participation in the VICA Energy Summit.  She really stepped up when we found out at the last minute that Enron didn't have a representative -- and agreed to fly to LA and speak on 12 hours notice.  A consummate team player -- kudos, Sue!  kd 
Here's Calpine's announcement, fyi... PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market /FROM PR NEWSWIRE SAN FRANCISCO  415-543-7800/ TO BUSINESS AND ENERGY EDITORS: PG&E Bankruptcy Will Not Affect Calpine's Commitment to California Power Market SAN JOSE, Calif., April 9 /PRNewswire/ -- In response to Pacific Gas and Electric Company's (PG&E) April 6th Chapter 11 filing, Calpine Corporation (NYSE: CPN), the San Jose, Calif.-based independent power company, stated it is confident that PG&E, through a successful reorganization, will be able to pay Calpine's Qualifying Facility (QF) subsidiaries for all past due power sales, in addition to electricity deliveries made on a going-forward basis. CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES SELL POWER TO PG&E UNDER THE TERMS OF LONG-TERM QF CONTRACTS AT ELEVEN FACILITIES, REPRESENTING NEARLY 600 MEGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY FOR NORTHERN CALIFORNIA POWER CUSTOMERS.  AS OF MARCH 31, 2001, CALPINE HAS RECORDED APPROXIMATELY $267 MILLION IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WITH PG&E, PLUS A $68 MILLION NOTE RECEIVABLE NOT YET DUE AND PAYABLE.  THE COMPANY'S REMAINING CALIFORNIA OPERATIONS, TOTALING APPROXIMATELY 700 MEGAWATTS OF CAPACITY, PROVIDE ELECTRICITY TO MUNICIPALITIES AND OTHER CREDITWORTHY THIRD PARTIES. CALPINE'S QF FACILITIES ARE PART OF A 9,000-MEGAWATT QF SUPPLY THAT PROVIDE CALIFORNIA CUSTOMERS WITH A LONG-TERM SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY AT PRICES SIGNIFICANTLY BELOW CURRENT WHOLESALE PRICES.  THIS CRITICAL POWER SUPPLY REPRESENTS APPROXIMATELY 33 PERCENT OF THE STATE'S POWER DEMAND.  WITHOUT THESE CONTRACTS IN PLACE FOR THIS SUMMER, CALIFORNIA FACES THE PROSPECT OF MORE BLACKOUTS AND HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN INCREASED COSTS. FOR THESE QF CONTRACTS TO CONTINUE, PG&E MUST ASSUME THE CONTRACTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.  IN ORDER TO ASSUME THESE CONTRACTS, PG&E WILL BE REQUIRED TO CURE ALL OUTSTANDING DEFAULTS, INCLUDING PAYING ALL PAST DUE AMOUNTS.  IF PG&E FAILS TO ASSUME THE CONTRACTS, CALPINE'S QF SUBSIDIARIES WILL BE ABLE TO SELL POWER ON THE OPEN MARKET AND SEEK DAMAGES FROM PG&E FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT THROUGH THE BANKRUPTCY CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS. ""As the state's leading developer of new electric generating facilities, 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company Receives Court Approval of Second-Day Motions SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 9, 2001 via NewsEdge Corporation  - Utility Granted Authority to Continue Efforts to Secure Natural Gas Supplies, Use Cash Collateral for Normal Business Operations Pacific Gas and Electric Company today received approval from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California, of various second-day motions. These orders will enable Pacific Gas and Electric Company to continue to fulfill post-petition obligations to suppliers and other creditors without disruption, and so that all parties' interests are considered, and treated fairly. The goal of these early proceedings is to assure stability of the company, in accordance with bankruptcy law. The court granted the utility the authority to continue to use its natural gas revenues to secure future supplies, hopefully ensuring that there will be no disruption of service for millions of natural gas customers. The court also authorized interim use of cash collateral in which mortgage bondholders have a beneficial interest, and scheduled and established deadlines relating to a final hearing on the continued use of cash collateral. Also today, Pacific Gas and Electric Company asked the Court to allow at least a 60 day suspension of a requirement approved by the CPUC on March 27, that would force PG&amp;E to restate all its regulatory books and accounts back to Jan. 1, 1998 in order to prolong the current electric rate freeze and make it appear that PG&amp;E has never incurred any operating losses on its wholesale power costs since the energy crisis began. Under the CPUC order, PG&amp;E is required to file tariffs and reports by Wednesday, April 11, making the accounting changes and restating its books. PG&amp;E believes the CPUC accounting and ratemaking change is intended to interfere with the rights of creditors and shareholders to recover over $8.9 billion in undercollected power costs that the company has accrued since last summer. Under federal bankruptcy law, PG&amp;E, as a ""debtor in possession,"" generally has an additional 60 days to comply with various deadlines issued by other agencies, and actions by those agencies which would interfere with creditors rights and the value of PG&amp;E's assets cannot be implemented without approval of the bankruptcy judge. At the Court's request, Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the CPUC are currently negotiating on an extension of this filing requirement, and is hopeful that an agreed upon solution can be reached in a timely manner. CONTACT: Pacific Gas and Electric Company |              News Department, 415/973-5930 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
fyi... 
Ken -- Thank you for making next Thursday, May 17 available for CEO meetings in California.  We are working to set up two meetings -- one in Los Angeles and one in Silicon Valley (we'll call on Scott McNealy's contact person to help pull the Northern California meeting together).   For the Los Angeles meeting, we'd like you to call Mayor Dick Riordan (213-847-3456) and ask for his help in pulling together a group of key, influential business leaders. As background, Riordan is a very wealthy Republican businessman who has been term-limited out and has not yet made public his future political aspirations (a bid for governor has been mentioned by insiders). You might congratulate him on helping to settle the Writer's Guild strike and ask if he'd now like to resolve the energy crisis (He's in a bit of a spat with Dave Freeman over who can claim credit for LADWP's success during this energy situation -- see attached LA Times article).  You can say you've been told that he was one of the clearer heads during the deregulation process and were instrumental in keeping DWP out of the regulatory mess. This is an opportunity for Riordan to help broker a solution, and that's why you're calling him.  You met with Robert Day (Trust Co of the West) who suggested that you call Riordan and enlist his support. Explain about our comprehensive solution -- business support is critical to garner political support. You'll be in Los Angeles next Thursday.  Ask if he could invite and host a meeting of key business leaders and introduce you.  I've attached a suggested list of prominent businessmen, close associates and personal friends of Riordan's.  We'd like to position this meeting as an insider's conversation of what's going on with the energy situation.  This meeting should be for principals only. Ask Riordan to identify someone in his office who we can work with to set up the meeting.  Enron's consultant in LA (Marathon Communications) will work to coordinate the event. If Riordan is not available next Thursday, ask him if he would ask Eli Broad (chairman of Sun America and a Democratic billionaire) or Jerry Perenchio (chairman of Univision) to host the meeting. Proposed Invitees *Eli Broad - Chairman, Sun America *Ron Burkle - Yucaipa Companies Jeffrey Katzenberg - DreamWorks Sherry Lansing- Paramount Nelson Rising- Catellus Bob Daly - LA Dodgers Ray Irani - Occidental Petroleum *Jerry Perenchio - Univison Michael Eisner/Bob Iger - Disney Ed Roski - Majestic Realty Earvin Johnson/Ken Lombard - Johnson Development Corporation Bruce Karatz - Kaufmann & Broad Terry Semel - Yahoo! Gary Winnick - Global Crossing Henry Yuen - Gemstar *Carl McKinsey *Liam McGee - Bank of America *Barry Munitz - Getty Trust *Gordon Binder - Amgen (ret) David Baltimore - Cal Tech Danny Villanueva - Bastion Capital Phil Anschutz - Qwest Communications, Staples Center *Dennis Tito - civilian spaceman (former LADWP Commissioner) Kent Kresa - Northrop Grumann Sunday, May 6, 2001 Riordan and Freeman's Feud Erupts in Public Power: Each questions the other's role in keeping the city free of California's energy crisis. By MICHAEL FINNEGAN, TERENCE MONMANEY, Times Staff Writers ?????With California mired in energy troubles, Mayor Richard Riordan and his former power chief S. David Freeman trumpet the extraordinary fortune of Los Angeles: no rate hikes and no blackouts. ?????Yet Riordan and Freeman have sullied their mutual success story by waging bitter campaigns to discredit each other--at first behind the scenes but now in public. ?????Pettiness, ingratitude, conflicts of interest, overblown claims of achievement: Such is the back and forth between two leaders who would seem to have good reason to pat each other on the back. ?????To Freeman, who has resigned as general manager of the L.A. Department of Water and Power to become chief energy advisor to Gov. Gray Davis, it seems Riordan resents his high-profile role in trying to steer California out of the energy crisis. ?????So the mayor, Freeman charged, has elbowed his way into energy issues that he is ill-equipped to handle and taken steps along the way that could harm the environment. ?????""With all due respect, I have 25 years of experience and knowledge--and he has 25 days,"" Freeman said. ""But he's the mayor, and he didn't like it 
Eric -- Attached is the letter and invitation list for the meeting on Thursday with the Mayor and Enron Chairman Ken Lay.  We will fax the invitations as soon as I  hear Monday morning from Kevin Sharer's office whether he is amenable to hosting the meeting.  I do not have contact information for Selim Zihlka, so if you could call or email me with that information, I'll make sure he receives an invitation. Please call me if you have any questions. Thank you for your assistance with this meeting. Regards, Karen Denne Vice President Public Relations Enron Corp. 713-853-9757 - work 713-853-6790 - fax 713-907-7906 - cell 281-861-7017 - home 
Steve -- here's the schedule for Thursday: 8-9 a.m. CEO Meeting at Sun w/ Northern California CEOs - Santa Clara 3:30 p.m. Meeting w/ Mayor Riordan - LA 4:15 p.m. Meeting w/ other LA CEOs I've attached the invitations for both meetings, as well as the invitation lists (Riordan has added some names to the LA list).  Given the extensive logistics, I'm planning on going with Ken -- do you think Jeff Dasovich should come also?  Jeff and I are working on a handout presentation (about 10-15 power point slides) for Ken to use during the meeting. What do you think about sending the information Jeff prepared for McNealy to the CEOs in advance of the meeting so that they have something to think about before they arrive for the discussion? Ken needs to meet with the UC Chancellor while he's in LA (probably around lunchtime), but are there any other meetings you think he should have while he's in California? For a briefing package, I'm putting together info (bios, company info) on all the CEOs who will be attending the meetings.  Is there anything else we need to prepare for Ken? Hurry back -- we miss you! kd 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
Attached is a new draft of the press release, which is scheduled to be released before the opening of the market tomorrow morning.  Please let me know tonight if you have any additional changes. Thank you. Karen 
Thought you'd get a kick out of this (especially after our recent ""hold music"" activity!) Try this.   It's for real.   The following is the customer service number for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 1-800-578-7453 Dial the number and listen to their greeting message, until the point when you are requested to choose an extension, and then you can hang up. The greeting message is priceless though, and worth the 
BusinessWeek is writing a story for its eBiz insert in mid-May about how Enron is using the Internet and e-commerce to again transform its businesses.  Wendy Zellner, who works out of the magazine's Dallas bureau, will be in Houston on Tuesday and Wednesday to conduct interviews. The following are the interview topics and schedule: Tuesday, May 2 10 a.m. - Shareholder meeting 3:30 p.m. - Louise Kitchen How was EnronOnline conceived and created? What did you and your group have to do to get EOL up and running? Did it really take only six months? How much did it cost to develop? How does EOL change Enron's existing business? Does it let you or your customers do anything that they couldn't do before? How much market share are you gaining and from whom? How much incremental revenue/profits will you ultimately get from EOL? How long does a trade take now vs. the old system? Does the Net make any new products possible? How does EOL compare to other electronic exchanges being created (such as the Dynegy/Williams/eSpeed venture)? What savings, back office and otherwise, do you get from going online? Wednesday, May 3 1:30 p.m. - Joe Hirko Explain the technicalities of setting up this business. What kind of technology did you have to invest in to make this happen? How big is the market opportunity, how fast-growing, how profitable? What advantages/disadvantages does Enron have vs. competitors? What are the potential roadblocks to creating a truly liquid market for trading bandwidth? Why is it important to have a network and the content delivery services along with the trading? How much will you invest this year?  Next year? (note: we've given Wendy the names and numbers of customers -- Verio, US West, Atomfilms) 3:30 p.m. - Jeff Skilling How is Enron using the Internet overseas to reach new customers more quickly? Germany example -- setting up web site to reach local distribution companies quickly -- How many customers has it helped you sign up and in what time period?  How long would that have taken under the old regime? Where else are you using the Internet abroad and with what results? What kinds of products might go through EOL in the future? What are the characteristics of the things you'll consider? In all areas, how does Enron stack up to the competition when it comes to using the Internet? How soon will EOL have competition? How long-lasting will your first-mover advantage be? Is the Internet changing in any significant way any other internal processes at Enron - i.e. recruiting, purchasing, managing your plants or pipelines? 4:30 p.m. - Sean Holmes How are you using the Internet to serve the big customers that you're getting in the retail energy business? How is that affecting costs? Communication time? Mark Palmer or I will bring Wendy to your office for the interview.  If you have any questions, please let me know. Thank you for your assistance. Karen Denne 
Mark/Steve -- Meredith has made great progress working w/ Kekst on updating Enron descriptions in all the key databases -- the project is nearly done!  kd 
As tomorrow is my last day in the office before the ""Big Day"" I wanted to provide both of you with an update as to where we stand on the Online Database Audit. TAB C (Baseline) -- Baseline has updated its Business Overview of Enron Corp. and the new version has been approved by Mark Palmer. TAB E (CorpTech/OneSource) -- The listing questionnaire was faxed to Meredith last week to be updated and faxed directly back to CorpTech. TAB F (DJ Interactive) -- The data in the DJ report comes from Hoover's.  I am currently working with Hoover's to update the Business Description in the DJ report. TAB G (D&B) -- An updated list of officers, directors, financials and the expanded business description has been sent to the update desk at D&B.  It will probably take at least 3 weeks for the D&B report to be updated. TAB H (Extel Company Report) -- Extel is now reporting updated financials for Enron Corp.  Extel is also in the process of updating the Activities and Management section of the report. TAB K (Hoover's) -- Hoover's is in the process of updating its list of Officers for Enron Corp. TAB M (Market Guide) -- Market Guide is in the process of changing the Company's name to Enron Corp. and is updating its Business Summary and list of Officers for the Company.  In addition, we could have Enron moved into the Oil & Gas Operations Industry of the Energy Sector within Market Guide. The peer group members of this new classification have been sent over to Enron.  Please let me know how you would like to proceed. TAB O (Multex) -- Multex is in the process of updating its Business Overview of Enron, which should include changing the size of Enron's assets to $33 billion and possibly including the Company's ranking within the Fortune 500. In addition, I am exploring if there is a more advantageous industry classification for Enron.  Enron is currently classified in the Basic Energy industry sector and its peer group is Major Pipeline Companies.  Dynegy's peer group is Major Oil & Gas Gathering & Marketing Companies -- perhaps this is a more appropriate classification for Enron.  Please let me know that you think. TAB R (Quicken)  -- Quicken obtains its data from Media General Financial Services.  I have spoken with an analyst at Media General and he has updated the Descriptor for Enron: ""Delivers physical commodities and financial and risk management services to customers; develops, constructs and operates energy facilities worldwide; produces electricity and natural gas; and is developing a network platform to facilitate on line business.""  The new descriptor should appear on Quicken.com within the next several days.  In addition, I am working with the analyst to develop a more appropriate Industry classification for Enron.  Media General currently classifies Enron as a Basic Materials Wholesale company. TAB S (Reuters MoneyNet) -- The data on this service is provided by Market Guide (TAB M). TAB T (Reuters Business Briefing) -- Reuters is in the process of updating the Activities section for Enron, which includes changing the Company's name to Enron Corp.; changing the IR contact to Mark Koenig; and updating the number of employees at the Company. TAB W (Value Line) -- Work in progress. I will give the both of you a call tomorrow to discuss the next steps of the project. Michael 
The attached press release announcing a gas sales agreement between Metgas and RCF was reviewed and approved in March, but the release was postponed. The GSA is expected to be signed next week, and we would like to issue the release in Mumbai.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by Monday, June 12. Thank you. kd 
fyi 
FYI, from Kelly.  Stacy 
______________________ Marissa C. Womble Enron Broadband Services Office: 713-345-7582 Cell: 713-569-7859 Marissa_Womble@enron.net 
Jeff -- I'll be working on the PR activities for this issue.  I've made a few revisions to the draft  (approaches and messages).  Let's discuss later this morning. Thanks. kd 
Here's the draft with comments from Steve, Mark and Mona included.  If anyone has any others, please send them along.  This wil likely go to IEP Thursday or Friday. 
FYI, the Aug. 14 issue of Fortune is their retirement special, and Enron is one of ""10 stocks to last the decade.""  Awesome article. Check it out: 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
see attached link for Saturday's LA Times article, ""Consumers Seek Repeal of Utility Deregulation"": 
Attached is the latest draft Q&A document, which I've edited and attempted to organize into topics.  There are a number of questions that still need answers.  I've also attached a draft of the key messages.   Please let me know if you have any additions, comments or changes to either document by the end of the day Thursday. Thank you. Karen 
Ricardo -- Per your request, here is some general information about Enron that should be helpful in providing background materials for the Lay/Fox meeting. I've attached the corporate fact sheet, second quarter earnings analyst presentation, EBS profile and recent news articles about Enron.  Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks. Karen 713-853-9757 http://www.businessweek.com/2000/00_30/b3691034.htm?scriptFramed http://www.fortune.com/fortune/2000/08/14/pre.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/technology/2000/01/24/eco.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/fortune500/enr.html http://www.forbes.com/forbes/00/0724/6517145a3.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ 2000/00_20/b3681075.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ ebiz/0007/0713skilling.htm http://www.business2.com/content/magazine/indepth/2000/06/01/11888 http://www.forbes.com/tool/html/00/jul/0720/mu4.htm http://cbs.marketwatch.com/archive/20000410/news/current/diligence.htx?source= htx/http2_mw http://eeshou-etv02.ees.enron.com/moneyline/moneyline.ram 
The attached Q&A and release incorporates comments from the int'l business units, legal and HR.  Would you please review once more before routing to Ken, Jeff and Joe.  Mark, do you want to send it under your cover? Thanks! kd 
Power Situation by State By The Associated Press A state-by-state look at the electric power situation for summer: Alabama: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely as utilities are required to maintain a reserve 15 percent above what is needed to meet peak demand. Residential and business customers will pay rates about 1.1 percent above a year ago. Alaska: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely. Hydroelectric power is plentiful, and generating systems are not being taxed. Electric bills are expected to fall slightly. Arizona: There is little likelihood of a power interruption. Utilities are prepared to handle the summer electricity demand, and price caps prevent the major utilities from increasing rates. Arkansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are highly unlikely. Electric bills are expected to rise 5 percent as increased fuel costs are passed on to customers and because the summer is expected to be even hotter than a year ago, when readings topped out at 111 degrees in Little Rock. California: Forecasts of tight power supplies throughout the West have energy experts in California warning of statewide rolling blackouts this summer. Power grid managers say concerted conservation efforts, accelerated construction of new power plants and ``a bit of luck'' could help avoid blackouts. Grid managers have already ordered rotating blackouts on four days since January. Los Angeles will most likely be spared because the L.A. Department of Water and Power provides its own generation and isn't connected with the state's grid. Colorado: The state is unlikely to experience blackouts or brownouts as 93 percent of its power comes from coal-fired plants. Because of fixed, long-term contracts for coal, producers do not anticipate any fuel cost adjustments. Connecticut: No brownouts or blackouts are anticipated. Brownouts are possible, though, if there is a prolonged spike in usage while power plants are down. Utilities are under a mandatory price rate cap. Delaware: Enough power is available to avoid blackouts or brownouts, but questions linger about whether utilities can deliver it. Power is undergoing deregulation in Delaware and officials are concerned over the possibility of increased costs. However, under a 1998 deregulation law, the cost of electricity is temporarily capped. Florida: Power outages are unlikely this summer as the state has reserves of about 20 percent. Utility companies have already increased their rates to cover higher fuel costs. Unless coal and oil wholesale prices increase sharply, consumers should not expect major rate increases. Georgia: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely in the state because a for-profit regulatory system gives suppliers an incentive to build more generating plants. Rising costs for natural gas, which fuels almost all new electric plants, could increase residential electric bills by 25 percent. Hawaii: There is little likelihood of blackouts, rolling brownouts or price spikes. As an island state, Hawaii's electricity system is not connected with that of other states. Each island has its own generation system and supply is sufficient to meet demand. Idaho: There is little chance of blackouts or rolling brownouts but bills are rising. The state's largest utility wants a 34 percent increase in residential rates. Illinois: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unexpected as generating has been increased with a number of small ``peaker'' plants. Homeowners shouldn't see a rate increase, either; electricity rates are locked in through 2004 under the state's deregulation plan. Indiana: There is no expectation of blackouts or brownouts unless there are weeks of very hot weather or a power plant stops operating. Utility companies are urging consumers to conserve energy and believe that will maintain the remaining state energy surpluses, which have decreased from 30 percent to 10 percent over the past decade. Iowa: While the state does not expect blackouts this summer, problems could occur as early as 2002 with serious capacity problems by 2006. Only single-digit price increases are expected this summer. Kansas: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are unlikely. Kansas has never had a regional transmission blackout. The size of electric bills will depend on how hot it gets and how much power customers use for air conditioning. State law prohibits price spikes by regulated utilities, which supply 70 percent of residential customers. Kentucky: Electricity rates in the state are among the lowest in the nation, but will likely rise between 3.2 percent and 3.8 percent by 2003, largely due to pollution control equipment upgrades. There is adequate supply to avoid brownouts and blackouts this summer. Louisiana: No blackouts are expected this summer but utility officials say the state is on the verge of a power crisis unless more plants are built. Consumer advocates say bills are likely to increase by as much as 30 percent with very high natural gas prices and a hot summer in the forecast. Maine: Five new natural gas-fired power plants are on line or coming on line soon, reducing the prospect of any rolling blackouts. No consumer rate increases are expected. Maryland: The Public Service Commission does not expect any service interruptions and believes electricity rates will not rise. An electric deregulation plan implemented last year reduced, and then froze, rates for homes and businesses. Massachusetts: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely because New England has added a half dozen new power plants in the past 18 months _ enough supply to outpace demand surges. Residents will likely see hefty rate hikes in the winter, including as much as 42 percent for some consumers. Michigan: Under a state law signed last year that will deregulate the electricity industry in 2002, utilities cut rates by 5 percent and must cap those rates for five years. Although demand for electricity is growing between 2 percent and 3 percent annually, utilities say they have enough supply to meet demand. Minnesota: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are likely unless there is an extended heat wave or a power plant failure. Electricity costs are expected to remain steady. Many customers, however, will spend the summer months paying off natural gas and electricity bills from the long, cold winter. Mississippi: Blackouts this summer are unlikely. The two main power suppliers are taking measures to boost their reserves during peak summer months and new independent generating plants also are available. Mississippi Power expects bills for customers to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher this summer. Entergy, another supplier, has not filed its summer rate plan yet. Missouri: Utilities have plenty of generating capacity and supply contracts, so service interruptions aren't expected. The state Public Service Commission says three large utilities are bringing new or expanded generating plants on line. State law bars rate spikes by PSC-regulated utilities, so customer bills shouldn't reflect higher generating costs. Montana: Blackouts and rolling brownouts are not expected. Montana Power customers will not see price increases this summer because the company is under a virtual rate freeze until July 2002. Flathead Electric's rates rose 29 percent on April 1 and an additional 60 percent increase is possible this fall. The two companies serve more than half of the customers in Montana. Nebraska: No rolling blackouts are expected. Electric bills are not expected to increase since the state's largest utility already increased its rates by 2 percent to 4 percent. Nevada: Major utilities are not expecting blackouts or rolling brownouts, but monthly electricity bills for two power companies will go up 1 percent to 2 percent a month through September, based on already-authorized incremental rate increases. State lawmakers, reacting to California's energy crisis, are processing measures that would block deregulation from taking effect. Gov. Kenny Guinn also has said he will not let deregulation take effect under 1997 and 1999 laws unless he's confident consumers won't be harmed. New Hampshire: Blackouts are unlikely but customers may have to conserve power on very hot days. As part of deregulation, rates will drop about 12 percent for customers of the state's largest electric utility. But rates could rise 20 percent to 30 percent for customers of the second-largest utility. New Jersey: Blackouts are unlikely because of protections included in a 2-year-old energy deregulation law. Rates are capped until 2003. However, regulators allowed utilities to raise natural gas rates over the summer, 2 percent a month through July, to make up for money lost over the winter to skyrocketing fuel prices. New Mexico: Most of the state will escape power outages and rate increases during the summer months. New York: To head off potential power shortfalls in New York City, the New York Power Authority is rushing to finish construction of 11 small natural gas turbines. Upstate New York's largest utility says it has enough power to avoid blackouts and brownouts during the summer. Rates are regulated across much of the state, but in New York City customers pay market prices. North Carolina: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected. No major rate cases are pending in the state among the large, regulated utilities. North Dakota: The state exports about 70 percent of the electricity produced from seven coal-fired power plants and is facing no power shortages this summer. Electricity bills to power air conditioners are not expected to double from the previous summer the way natural gas bills doubled in the winter. Ohio: No blackouts or rolling brownouts are expected unless there is a long heat wave. Prices for residential customers will remain flat for the next five years as part of a deregulation plan that took effect Jan. 1. Oklahoma: There is little likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts between May and September, but Oklahoma Gas &amp; Electric, which has 700,000 customers in the state and northwestern Arkansas, expects electricity bills to be 10 percent to 15 percent above last summer. Oregon: Some extraordinary measures may be needed to ensure there are no rolling blackouts or brownouts this summer. The measures could include curtailing hydroelectric programs that help salmon. Price spikes could occur. Pennsylvania: No blackouts or brownouts are expected. The state is a net exporter of power and has more than enough supply to meet demand. Electricity bills will not rise this summer because power companies agreed to cap their rates, in come cases through 2010. Rhode Island: Blackouts are unlikely, partly because of power plants built in New England in recent years. Businesses could see electric rates rise as much as 46 percent. South Carolina: With reserves of about 15 percent, there is very little chance of power interruption in the state. Two major utilities have obtained rate increases of about 3 percent to reflect higher fuel costs. Increased demand from summer air conditioning normally pushes summer bills up 50 percent by July. South Dakota: The majority of power comes from dams or coal-fired generating plants rather than natural gas. There is little chance of power shortages this summer and rates should remain stable. Tennessee: Tennessee Valley Authority electric rates were last raised in 1997 and should remain steady through the summer. No blackouts or brownouts are expected. Texas: Additional transmission lines should reduce the likelihood of blackouts or rolling brownouts. Certain fuel surcharges related to natural gas prices may cause higher electricity bills. Utah: Officials are counting on Californians to cut their energy use and free more power for use on the Western electricity grid to avoid blackouts or brownouts. Utah power has received a 9.4 percent interim rate increase and has 19 percent rate increase awaiting approval. Vermont: Chances of blackouts or brownouts are low. Much of Vermont's electricity is imported from Quebec, though the state is also dependent on the regional power grid that serves New England. Electric rates are regulated. Virginia: Blackouts and brownouts are highly unlikely because of an increase in the generating capacity of the state's largest utility. The size of electric bills will be determined by the weather and consumption, not any change in rates, which are capped through 2007. Washington: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely, although utilities will have a razor-thin power margin that would not withstand the loss of a power plant or transmission line. Electricity largely comes from dams, and a severe drought is reducing the water supply and raising prices. Industrial and residential customers of public utility districts have already seen rate increases. Rates could rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year. West Virginia: Generating capacity is sufficient to meet peak air conditioning needs. None of the four major utilities has requested a rate increase. Wisconsin: Electric bills could run as much as 10 percent higher this summer because of surcharges to cover rising prices for natural gas, which fuels many plants. State officials ordered utilities in December to increase their reserves from 15 percent to 18 percent to bolster reliability during the summer. Wyoming: Blackouts and brownouts are unlikely but could occur because the state grid is intertwined with other systems that could experience shortages. Xcel Energy, serving Cheyenne, has applied for a 57 percent price increase. Similar filings are expected from 
fyi 
FYI, from Kelly.  Stacy 
______________________ Marissa C. Womble Enron Broadband Services Office: 713-345-7582 Cell: 713-569-7859 Marissa_Womble@enron.net 
fyi -- great job! 
Karen, Here is a copy of the story, which is unfortunately quite a bit shorter. Thank you both for your help, and please give a special thanks to Mr. Kean for his extremely helpful comments and analogies. Sincerely, Vibeke Laroi (See attached file: fair power grid.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - fair power grid.doc 
We need to be careful how we position this.  I'm concerned that this may be perceived as Enron re-entering the residential market -- even though we're proposing to supply SDG&E rather than direct end-use customers.  How does this compare to the other eight offers SDG&E has received? James D Steffes@EES 08/17/2000 01:38 PM 
Attached is a write-up of a presentation on making a ""public"" offer in SDG&E's territory for supplying their residential load. If we are to do this, we need to probably have something ready by late August. Any comments? 
Just in case you need this for future reference.  I played with it and gave it a simple look.  (You can always delete if you don't like it.) mm 
FYI, John Bryson is on the board of the LA Times. Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/10/2000 02:55 PM 
Following is an excerpt from a LA Times article illustrating a different, more negative point of view concerning deregulation compared to earlier articles I had sent. The whole article is attached at the bottom. Overconfident lawmakers even inserted as Section 330A of the Public Utilities Code: ""It is the intent of the Legislature that a cumulative rate reduction of at least 20% be achieved not later than April 1, 2002, for residential and small commercial customers from the rates 
see attached link for Saturday's LA Times article, ""Consumers Seek Repeal of Utility Deregulation"": 
Rob -- This info is great.  For use w/ the media, we'll need to simplify, and it would be helpful to have specific examples of what a utility would pay and the overall result of a market with price caps, the current ""open"" market (under ISO regulation, buying from the PX) and a pure open market (using hedges to manage risk). thx. kd 
Jeff -- I'll be working on the PR activities for this issue.  I've made a few revisions to the draft  (approaches and messages).  Let's discuss later this morning. Thanks. kd 
Here's the draft with comments from Steve, Mark and Mona included.  If anyone has any others, please send them along.  This wil likely go to IEP Thursday or Friday. 
Calif. power resources will be 3,752 Mw short in 2001 By David Feliciano, BridgeNews Scottsdale, Ariz.--Dec. 7--California resources and reserves for electricity will be 3,752 megawatts short of the anticipated load in 2001, California Independent System Operator (ISO) President and CEO Terry Winter said Thursday at the annual Western Systems Coordinating Council meeting. ""I'm concerned about supply,"" Winter said. ""Without sufficient supply, markets will set socially and politically 
This went out Dec. 27... 
Another plug for open office space.... > > (See attached file: cubicle hurdles.mpg) 
Thought you'd get a kick out of this (especially after our recent ""hold music"" activity!) Try this.   It's for real.   The following is the customer service number for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 1-800-578-7453 Dial the number and listen to their greeting message, until the point when you are requested to choose an extension, and then you can hang up. The greeting message is priceless though, and worth the 
new draft with revised numbers and addition of Moody's: 
We have received the following questions from the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg.  We will not necessarily respond, but would you please provide answers and let me know your view whether or not we should respond to the following: Have you had any further contact from Fitch? (DeSpain) Has there been a change in status to the SEC inquiry?  Which office is handling - Fort Worth? (Rogers) Have you been contacted by the Federal Reserve or any other agency conducting an investigation? (Rogers) Have you been in contact with or retained bankruptcy counsel? (Haedicke) Have you been contacted about a takeover - Royal Dutch, GE? Have you retained Goldman Sachs to advise you on credit rating, financing issues or to find a strategic partner?  Will they receive an equity stake to help Enron get out of its current situation?  (Bowen) These reporters are on deadline tonight, so let me know as soon as possible. Thank you. Karen 
As you know, the SEC is conducting an informal inquiry into related party transactions Enron did with LJM.  We are cooperating fully and are providing the information the SEC has requested.  However, we have learned today that the SEC is extremely sensitive about us using their inquiry as a ""shield"" to not answer certain questions -- i.e. ""I can't answer that because of a pending SEC inquiry.""  As a result, we have been advised that we should not make any comment about the SEC inquiry in any context.  This extends beyond media and includes any interactions with customers, regulators, etc.  Please forward this message on to anyone in your group who this might impact.  Call me if you have any questions. Thank you. 
Attached is the most recent press release, as of last night.  We held off circulating because we anticipated an updated draft but have not yet received one so wanted you to have an opportunity to review what we have.  Please let me or Mark Palmer know if you have any comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
The attached press release announcing a gas sales agreement between Metgas and RCF was reviewed and approved in March, but the release was postponed. The GSA is expected to be signed next week, and we would like to issue the release in Mumbai.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by Monday, June 12. Thank you. kd 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Jeannie drafted this op-ed in response to the situation in the California market.  Please let me know if you'd like to proceed with placement in a CA newspaper.  If so, we need to decide who should author and what is the ideal placement.  thx. kd 
Karen, I've incorporated your suggestions. Still need to know current state mw capacity and no. of peaking mw approved for next summer. Hope Jeff can help or direct me to someone who can. Sorry for this AOL transmission -- the system is running really slow. Take care, Jeannie - Electricity Op Ed.doc 
Attached is the PR plan prepared by Marathon for December and 1Q01.   I've also attached the draft CEO email specified in the plan and the target list of key industrial and technology leaders in California.   Please review the plan and preliminary messages.  Keep in mind that as the holidays are approaching rapidly, we need to move quickly to begin implementing the PR plan.  Please let me know by Friday, Dec. 15 if you have any comments, concerns or suggestions. Thank you. Karen 
Enron: ISO Credit Problems Are Those Of Calif Utilities Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 12/13/2000 Dow Jones Energy Service (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) By Mark Golden NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The credit problems of the California Independent System Operator reflect the credit problems of the state's three investor-owned utilities, Enron Corp. (ENE) chief of staff Steven Kean said Wednesday. ""We have expressed some concerns about the utilities' creditworthiness,"" Kean said. ""They wouldn't have this credit issue if they had a government 
Steve --  A few months ago, Erin Rice approached me about the idea of creating a Chief Morale Officer for Enron, a relatively new concept she had read about.   I asked her to write up a position description (attached). Last week, Meredith and I attended a media conference in San Francisco with all the top new media and traditional business/financial publications, and the big story trend is corporate culture and what's new and different at companies.  A CMO would give Enron a unique angle to participate in (and pitch) culture stories and increase our exposure (and help with recruiting). It would also serve an incredible need internally to have an executive who was responsive, accessible to employees and had the ability to resolve problems.  In looking at the organization, I thought someone like Cindy Olson would be perfect for a CMO.  Just wanted to pass along this suggestion to see what you thought. Thanks. kd 
Attached is a new draft of the press release, which is scheduled to be released before the opening of the market tomorrow morning.  Please let me know tonight if you have any additional changes. Thank you. Karen 
Steve/Rick/Paul -- In case Bev didn't mention the following to you, I thought you'd like to see the great feedback we got on Sue's participation in the VICA Energy Summit.  She really stepped up when we found out at the last minute that Enron didn't have a representative -- and agreed to fly to LA and speak on 12 hours notice.  A consummate team player -- kudos, Sue!  kd 
Attached is the language we are proposing to Dynegy for their release tomorrow.  Please send me your comments tonight, and I will send the final release to Rosie to forward to Chuck Watson from Ken. Thank you. Karen x39757 
We have received the following questions from the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg.  We will not necessarily respond, but would you please provide answers and let me know your view whether or not we should respond to the following: Have you had any further contact from Fitch? (DeSpain) Has there been a change in status to the SEC inquiry?  Which office is handling - Fort Worth? (Rogers) Have you been contacted by the Federal Reserve or any other agency conducting an investigation? (Rogers) Have you been in contact with or retained bankruptcy counsel? (Haedicke) Have you been contacted about a takeover - Royal Dutch, GE? Have you retained Goldman Sachs to advise you on credit rating, financing issues or to find a strategic partner?  Will they receive an equity stake to help Enron get out of its current situation?  (Bowen) These reporters are on deadline tonight, so let me know as soon as possible. Thank you. Karen 
The attached press release is the latest draft, which has been approved by Enron and one part of Citigroup.  JPMorgan is still reviewing, as is another part of Citigroup.  The release includes several bracketed phrases and sentences that are still being discussed. 
pls review before i send to Ken. thx. kd 
Enron taps credit line; stock slides 10/27/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. HOUSTON (AP) - After Enron Corp. tapped into more than $3 billion in credit in an effort to boost confidence of investors and customers, stock prices dropped. Enron Corp.'s stock price hit its lowest point in more than five years Friday. Shares fell 95 cents on Friday to $15.40, a level not seen since 1995, as analysts continued to muddle through a complicated series of bookkeeping issues revealed after the company's earnings announcement earlier this month. The stock is down more than 50 percent in two weeks, and the company lost almost $14 billion in market value. Late this week the company decided to convert $3 billion in revolving credit it has through various banks into cash. The company put about $1.1 billion in the bank in an effort to reassure business partners and investors of its liquidity and is using the $2.2 billion balance to begin an orderly repurchase of a certain kind of short-term corporate IOU known as commercial paper. ""Nothing spells confidence quite like cash, which is what we want investors to understand,"" said Enron spokesman Mark Palmer of the $1.1 billion banked this week. 
Ricardo -- Per your request, here is some general information about Enron that should be helpful in providing background materials for the Lay/Fox meeting. I've attached the corporate fact sheet, second quarter earnings analyst presentation, EBS profile and recent news articles about Enron.  Please let me know if you need additional information. Thanks. Karen 713-853-9757 http://www.businessweek.com/2000/00_30/b3691034.htm?scriptFramed http://www.fortune.com/fortune/2000/08/14/pre.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/technology/2000/01/24/eco.html http://www.fortune.com/fortune/fortune500/enr.html http://www.forbes.com/forbes/00/0724/6517145a3.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ 2000/00_20/b3681075.htm http://www.businessweek.com/common_frames/bws.htm?http://www.businessweek.com/ ebiz/0007/0713skilling.htm http://www.business2.com/content/magazine/indepth/2000/06/01/11888 http://www.forbes.com/tool/html/00/jul/0720/mu4.htm http://cbs.marketwatch.com/archive/20000410/news/current/diligence.htx?source= htx/http2_mw http://eeshou-etv02.ees.enron.com/moneyline/moneyline.ram 
FYI, the Aug. 14 issue of Fortune is their retirement special, and Enron is one of ""10 stocks to last the decade.""  Awesome article. Check it out: 
Mark/Steve -- Meredith has made great progress working w/ Kekst on updating Enron descriptions in all the key databases -- the project is nearly done!  kd 
As tomorrow is my last day in the office before the ""Big Day"" I wanted to provide both of you with an update as to where we stand on the Online Database Audit. TAB C (Baseline) -- Baseline has updated its Business Overview of Enron Corp. and the new version has been approved by Mark Palmer. TAB E (CorpTech/OneSource) -- The listing questionnaire was faxed to Meredith last week to be updated and faxed directly back to CorpTech. TAB F (DJ Interactive) -- The data in the DJ report comes from Hoover's.  I am currently working with Hoover's to update the Business Description in the DJ report. TAB G (D&B) -- An updated list of officers, directors, financials and the expanded business description has been sent to the update desk at D&B.  It will probably take at least 3 weeks for the D&B report to be updated. TAB H (Extel Company Report) -- Extel is now reporting updated financials for Enron Corp.  Extel is also in the process of updating the Activities and Management section of the report. TAB K (Hoover's) -- Hoover's is in the process of updating its list of Officers for Enron Corp. TAB M (Market Guide) -- Market Guide is in the process of changing the Company's name to Enron Corp. and is updating its Business Summary and list of Officers for the Company.  In addition, we could have Enron moved into the Oil & Gas Operations Industry of the Energy Sector within Market Guide. The peer group members of this new classification have been sent over to Enron.  Please let me know how you would like to proceed. TAB O (Multex) -- Multex is in the process of updating its Business Overview of Enron, which should include changing the size of Enron's assets to $33 billion and possibly including the Company's ranking within the Fortune 500. In addition, I am exploring if there is a more advantageous industry classification for Enron.  Enron is currently classified in the Basic Energy industry sector and its peer group is Major Pipeline Companies.  Dynegy's peer group is Major Oil & Gas Gathering & Marketing Companies -- perhaps this is a more appropriate classification for Enron.  Please let me know that you think. TAB R (Quicken)  -- Quicken obtains its data from Media General Financial Services.  I have spoken with an analyst at Media General and he has updated the Descriptor for Enron: ""Delivers physical commodities and financial and risk management services to customers; develops, constructs and operates energy facilities worldwide; produces electricity and natural gas; and is developing a network platform to facilitate on line business.""  The new descriptor should appear on Quicken.com within the next several days.  In addition, I am working with the analyst to develop a more appropriate Industry classification for Enron.  Media General currently classifies Enron as a Basic Materials Wholesale company. TAB S (Reuters MoneyNet) -- The data on this service is provided by Market Guide (TAB M). TAB T (Reuters Business Briefing) -- Reuters is in the process of updating the Activities section for Enron, which includes changing the Company's name to Enron Corp.; changing the IR contact to Mark Koenig; and updating the number of employees at the Company. TAB W (Value Line) -- Work in progress. I will give the both of you a call tomorrow to discuss the next steps of the project. Michael 
BusinessWeek is writing a story for its eBiz insert in mid-May about how Enron is using the Internet and e-commerce to again transform its businesses.  Wendy Zellner, who works out of the magazine's Dallas bureau, will be in Houston on Tuesday and Wednesday to conduct interviews. The following are the interview topics and schedule: Tuesday, May 2 10 a.m. - Shareholder meeting 3:30 p.m. - Louise Kitchen How was EnronOnline conceived and created? What did you and your group have to do to get EOL up and running? Did it really take only six months? How much did it cost to develop? How does EOL change Enron's existing business? Does it let you or your customers do anything that they couldn't do before? How much market share are you gaining and from whom? How much incremental revenue/profits will you ultimately get from EOL? How long does a trade take now vs. the old system? Does the Net make any new products possible? How does EOL compare to other electronic exchanges being created (such as the Dynegy/Williams/eSpeed venture)? What savings, back office and otherwise, do you get from going online? Wednesday, May 3 1:30 p.m. - Joe Hirko Explain the technicalities of setting up this business. What kind of technology did you have to invest in to make this happen? How big is the market opportunity, how fast-growing, how profitable? What advantages/disadvantages does Enron have vs. competitors? What are the potential roadblocks to creating a truly liquid market for trading bandwidth? Why is it important to have a network and the content delivery services along with the trading? How much will you invest this year?  Next year? (note: we've given Wendy the names and numbers of customers -- Verio, US West, Atomfilms) 3:30 p.m. - Jeff Skilling How is Enron using the Internet overseas to reach new customers more quickly? Germany example -- setting up web site to reach local distribution companies quickly -- How many customers has it helped you sign up and in what time period?  How long would that have taken under the old regime? Where else are you using the Internet abroad and with what results? What kinds of products might go through EOL in the future? What are the characteristics of the things you'll consider? In all areas, how does Enron stack up to the competition when it comes to using the Internet? How soon will EOL have competition? How long-lasting will your first-mover advantage be? Is the Internet changing in any significant way any other internal processes at Enron - i.e. recruiting, purchasing, managing your plants or pipelines? 4:30 p.m. - Sean Holmes How are you using the Internet to serve the big customers that you're getting in the retail energy business? How is that affecting costs? Communication time? Mark Palmer or I will bring Wendy to your office for the interview.  If you have any questions, please let me know. Thank you for your assistance. Karen Denne 
Attached is the latest draft Q&A document, which I've edited and attempted to organize into topics.  There are a number of questions that still need answers.  I've also attached a draft of the key messages.   Please let me know if you have any additions, comments or changes to either document by the end of the day Thursday. Thank you. Karen 
The attached Q&A and release incorporates comments from the int'l business units, legal and HR.  Would you please review once more before routing to Ken, Jeff and Joe.  Mark, do you want to send it under your cover? Thanks! kd 
Jim and Ken -- Attached is an article for eBiz (our biweekly online newsletter), which we are scheduled to launch at 7:30 a.m. Friday.  Kelly Kimberly has reviewed it, but has asked that you view the article as well.  Since only EBS employees received your memo about the restructuring -- and the rest of the employees did not receive any communication -- it is extremely important to provide information through this vehicle. Please let me know of your approval or if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Jim and Ken -- Attached is an article for eBiz (our biweekly online newsletter), which we are scheduled to launch at 7:30 a.m. Friday.  Kelly Kimberly has reviewed it, but has asked that you view the article as well.  Since only EBS employees received your memo about the restructuring -- and the rest of the employees did not receive any communication -- it is extremely important to provide information through this vehicle. Please let me know of your approval or if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
FYI, Reuters crossed the attached article on Y2K and highlighted Enron's worst case scenario information from our SEC filing .  We can probably expect more articles like this during December.  Our reactive media statement on Enron's 10K remains the same, but the media is likely to run our filing language, as they are looking for ""doomsday"" quotes (I spoke to the Reuters reporter and explained that we complied with the SEC requirements and the worst case scenario was unlikely, yet the reporter still ran 10K quotes rather than a corporate response to the filing.) If you have any questions, please call me. Thanks. Karen, x39757 
FYI - may generate some interest from the media!! 
Attached is a draft press release announcing the resumption of trading tomorrow.  Please review, and if you have any comments or changes, please contact me by email or at x39757. Thank you. Karen 
Louise -- Just got a call from Pattie Sellers with Fortune magazine.  They'd like to change your panel for the October conference -- instead of speaking on ""Navigating Globally,"" they'd like you to speak on the panel, ""Pushing the Boundaries.""  It's a more high-profile panel -- it opens the session on Thursday morning.  Other speakers include Andrea Jung, CEO of Avon, and Lynn Forester, co-CEO/Chairman of FirstMark Communications (she raised $1 billion in private equity and is building a broadband network in Europe.)  Maria Bartiromo of CNBC will be the moderator. I think you should agree to participate in this panel instead.  Let me know what you think. Thanks! Karen 
Please review the revised attached press release, which we would like to send out as soon as possible.  Please call Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached is a new draft press release.  First thing in the morning, we need to discuss whether to release this.  Please contact Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached is a draft press release announcing the resumption of trading tomorrow.  Please review, and if you have any comments or changes, please contact me by email or at x39757. Thank you. Karen 
Attached is a new draft press release.  First thing in the morning, we need to discuss whether to release this.  Please contact Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Louise -- Just got a call from Pattie Sellers with Fortune magazine.  They'd like to change your panel for the October conference -- instead of speaking on ""Navigating Globally,"" they'd like you to speak on the panel, ""Pushing the Boundaries.""  It's a more high-profile panel -- it opens the session on Thursday morning.  Other speakers include Andrea Jung, CEO of Avon, and Lynn Forester, co-CEO/Chairman of FirstMark Communications (she raised $1 billion in private equity and is building a broadband network in Europe.)  Maria Bartiromo of CNBC will be the moderator. I think you should agree to participate in this panel instead.  Let me know what you think. Thanks! Karen 
Please review the revised attached press release, which we would like to send out as soon as possible.  Please call Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
A full list of news articles will be distributed on Monday, but here is som= e of the initial coverage. Business/Financial Desk; Section A Rival to Buy Enron, Top Energy Trader, After Financial Fall By ALEX BERENSON and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 11/10/2001 The New York Times=20 Page 1, Column 2 c. 2001 New York Times Company=20 With its stock plunging and its finances in doubt, the world's largest ener= gy trader, the Enron Corporation, agreed to be acquired yesterday by the ri= val Dynegy Inc. for about $9 billion in stock and the assumption of $13 bil= lion in debt.=20 The deal is an extraordinary turnabout for Enron, a Houston-based company t= hat had been a driving force behind electricity deregulation nationwide. Its chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, a big contributor to the Republican Party, pr= ovided political influence, while its former chief executive, Jeffrey K. Sk= illing, helped create markets for the trading of electricity and natural ga= s. But last winter, when California's effort to deregulate the electricity = market led to soaring power prices and rolling blackouts, Enron was the sub= ject of much criticism and political anger.=20 Recent disclosures of discrepancies in Enron's financial statements and an = investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission caused the shares t= o plunge this week to their lowest level in a decade. As other companies be= came wary of doing business with it, Enron -- also facing a potential cash = squeeze -- apparently had little choice but to find a buyer, and a deal was= hastily cobbled together this week.=20 For critics who had complained about Enron's market power and its dominance= , the combination poses additional concerns. Dynegy's acquisition of Enron = will be reviewed by state and federal agencies, led by the Justice Departme= nt and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Analysts said today that t= hey expected scrutiny of the combined companies' holdings in California, wh= ere Dynegy owns power-generating plants and Enron accounts for much of the = trading of natural gas -- fuel for the state's electric power plants.=20 Buying Enron at a deep discount -- it has lost $60 billion in market value = this year -- could make Dynegy the dominant trader of electricity and natur= al gas. But the agreement carries big risks as well. Along with Enron's gas= pipelines and high-technology trading floor, Dynegy will take on Enron's s= ubstantial debt and a web of complex transactions that Enron has spun over = the last decade.=20 In addition to the $13 billion in debt that Enron carries on its books, it = has guaranteed at least $4 billion in off-balance sheet loans, and the hidd= en debt could total as much as $10 billion, said Carol Coale, a stock analy= st with Prudential Securities.=20 Charles L. Watson, Dynegy's chairman and chief executive, said yesterday th= at Dynegy could sort through Enron's tangled finances. ''We know the compan= y well,'' Mr. Watson said. ''It's not like we just started fresh. I'm confi= dent that it's as solid as we thought it was.''=20 The new company will combine Enron's 25,000-mile natural gas pipeline syste= m with the large number of power plants that Dynegy owns worldwide, as well= as Illinois Power, a Dynegy subsidiary that serves 650,000 customers in Il= linois. But its most important asset will be its trading desk. It will be t= he largest energy trader in the nation, trading more than twice as much pow= er and natural gas as its closest competitors.=20 Mr. Watson said the company did not expect to sell significant properties a= nd that the deal should pass regulatory scrutiny. ''There's really not a lo= t of overlap in assets,'' he said.=20 Mr. Watson and Steve Bergstrom, Dynegy's president, will hold those positio= ns in the new company, which will be called Dynegy and remain in Houston. M= r. Lay, who created Enron in the mid-1980's, will not have any role in the = combined company's daily operations. He has been asked to join its board bu= t has not provided an answer. ''The last three weeks haven't been a lot of = fun,'' he said.=20 In a statement announcing the agreement yesterday afternoon, Mr. Watson sai= d he was confident that the merger would produce a strong new company. ''En= ron is the ideal strategic partner for Dynegy,'' Mr. Watson said. ''We will= keep a strong balance sheet and straightforward financial structure as key= priorities.''=20 To shore up Enron's finances, Dynegy will immediately put $1.5 billion into= Enron through ChevronTexaco, the giant oil company, which already owns 27 = percent of Dynegy. Another billion dollars will be injected once the deal i= s completed.=20 Investors appeared comfortable yesterday that Dynegy could make the deal wo= rk. After falling $3, to $33, on Wednesday, when the companies first said t= hey were in discussions, Dynegy rose $5.76 on Thursday and yesterday to clo= se the week at $38.76.=20 ''On paper, it works,'' Ms. Coale of Prudential said. ''The combined compan= y would be the leading trader, the market leader in most of their businesse= s.'' Ms. Coale, who has a sell rating on Enron and a buy rating on Dynegy, = said she planned to keep her buy rating on Dynegy.=20 As it works to have the deal approved, Dynegy will have to persuade Enron's= traders to stay with the combined company. The pain of the stock's 90 perc= ent plunge this year will not be equally shared. Some Enron employees have = held onto their shares and seen their retirement accounts eviscerated. Mean= while, Mr. Lay, Mr. Skilling and other former and current executives sold h= undreds of millions of dollars in Enron stock in 2000 and this year.=20 The companies also have very different corporate cultures. Dynegy emphasize= s teamwork, while Enron is more competitive, said Ehud Ronn, director of th= e Center for Energy Finance Education and Research at the University of Tex= as. Even before the merger was announced, Enron had lost some of its employ= ees to other energy trading companies, Mr. Ronn said.=20 Some investors and analysts say that the problems with Enron's finances may= extend beyond the partnerships that have been the subject of Wall Street's= scrutiny the last month. James Chanos, a short-seller who has been one of = Enron's most vocal critics, said there was increasing evidence that Enron's= energy trading operations were not as profitable as the company had said. = ''There appears to be a culture at Enron of aggressively booking profits an= d deferring or obscuring losses,'' Mr. Chanos said.=20 On Thursday, Enron said in a filing with the S.E.C that it had overstated i= ts earnings by almost $600 million over the last five years. Mr. Chanos sai= d more restatements were possible, noting that the filing disclosed partner= ships had been used to hedge almost $1 billion in losses in 2000 and this y= ear. So far, the losses from those partnerships remain off Enron's financia= l statements, Mr. Chanos said.=20 Enron's stock had been under pressure for most of this year, as the company= ran up large losses with failed efforts to expand outside its core trading= operation. In August, Mr. Skilling resigned as chief executive, and Mr. La= y resumed control of daily operations.=20 Still, the company appeared financially sound until last month, when it dis= closed that its shareholders' equity, a measure of the company's value, dro= pped by $1.2 billion because of deals disclosed only hazily in its financia= l statements. The announcement unnerved investors, who wondered whether Enr= on had found ways to inflate its profits and move debt off its balance shee= t, and led the S.E.C. to begin an investigation.=20 Mr. Lay tried to reassure investors that Enron's finances were in order and= that its businesses remained strong. But the last three weeks have brought= a series of damaging revelations about partnerships that Enron formed with= some of its top executives, including its former chief financial officer, = Andrew S. Fastow.=20 With questions mounting, the major credit-rating agencies began to downgrad= e Enron's debt, putting additional pressure on the company. If Enron's debt= rating falls below investment grade, it would be forced to repay $3.3 bill= ion in loans that it had guaranteed.=20 To strengthen its balance sheet and bolster its stock, Enron turned to big = investors like Warren E. Buffett in search of billions of dollars of financ= ing. When the financing did not quickly appear, its stock fell further.=20 By this week, some major energy traders were refusing to extend credit to E= nron, worrying that the company would be unable to make good on its contrac= ts. The Mirant Corporation, an Atlanta-based power plant owner and electric= ity trader, sharply curtailed its trading with Enron this week. ''We're tra= ding with them on a very limited basis,'' said James Peters, a Mirant spoke= sman. ''It's not business as usual.''=20 On Wednesday, Enron's stock fell as low as $7 a share, its lowest level in = more than a decade. That day, news of the Enron and Dynegy talks leaked out= .=20 By late Wednesday, the boards of the two companies had tentatively agreed t= o a deal. But Dynegy refused to go ahead until it learned whether Enron's c= redit rating would remain investment grade and was comfortable with the eff= ect of the deal on its own rating. The deal moved forward yesterday after D= ynegy was assured Enron's debt was not in danger of being lowered to junk s= tatus soon after the deal was announced, according to company officials.=20 Dynegy and Enron had provided Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Servi= ce, the main credit agencies, with statements showing them what a combined = company might look like and asked the ratings agencies for an expedited rev= iew of the transaction, Mr. Watson said.=20 Under the deal, Enron shareholders will receive 0.2685 share of Dynegy stoc= k for each Enron share, or $9.80 based on Dynegy's closing price on Thursda= y. Enron's stock gained 22 cents yesterday, to $8.63.=20 ''I never thought our stock price would be at this level,'' Mr. Lay said ye= sterday.=20 Enron's shareholders will own only 36 percent of the combined company, and = Dynegy will name at least 11 members of the company's 14-member board.=20 If the deal falls apart, Enron or Dynegy will have to pay a breakup fee of = $350 million.=20 To protect Dynegy's and ChevronTexaco's cash infusion, the money will go to= an Enron unit that owns the Northern Natural Gas Pipeline. If the merger i= s not completed, Dynegy will have the right to buy the unit.=20 An army of bankers and lawyers advised the companies. Lehman Brothers Inc. = acted as financial adviser and Baker Botts and Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer &= Feld acted as counsel for Dynegy. J. P. Morgan & Company and Salomon Smith= Barney acted as financial advisers for Enron, and Vinson & Elkins and Weil= Gotshal & Manges acted as the company's counsel. Pillsbury Winthrop served= as counsel to ChevronTexaco. Chart: ''A Marriage of Strength and Weakness'' A merger of Enron and Dynegy= would bring together two of the country's biggest energy companies -- and = save Enron from potential collapse. Graph tracks the weekly closes of Enron= shares from 1999 through 2001. Top North American gas marketers SALES, OF = BILLION CUBIC FEET PER DAY* Enron: 24.6 Reliant: 13.2 Duke Energy: 12.8 BP:= 12.3 Mirant: 11.8 Dynegy: 10.9 Top North American power marketers SALES, O= F MILLION MEGAWATT HOURS* Enron: 212.5 American Electric Power: 134.5 Duke = Energy: 118.1 Reliant Resources: 86.1 PG&E National Energy Group: 73.2 Dyne= gy: 70.1 *Figures are for the 2nd quarter of 2001. (Sources: Bloomberg Fina= ncial Markets; Simmons & Co.; Natural Gas Week)(pg. C2) ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy, Enron Merger Deal Worth Almost $25 Billion Melita Marie Garza 11/10/2001 KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois=20 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World= Reporter (TM)=20 Enron Corp., the nation's biggest power trader, was taken over by its small= er, more conservative rival, Dynegy Inc. in a merger deal valued at nearly = $25 billion, company officials announced Friday.=20 The combined company will be called Dynegy Inc. and will be headed by Chuck= Watson, Dynegy's chairman and chief executive. If it wins regulatory and s= hareholder approval, the deal would propel Dynegy, the sixth-largest U.S. p= ower trader, to the No. 1 position, with more than 30 percent of the market= . The Houston-based competitors are new-breed energy companies, formed to cap= italize on wholesale power marketing and trading, with Dynegy emphasizing i= ts own power generation capabilities.=20 Enron, meanwhile, has been laid low in recent weeks by soured transactions = with energy partnerships run by one of its former executives and by a serie= s of revelations about questionable accounting practices. Enron this week w= as forced to restate its earnings over the past five years -- revising them= downward by 20 percent, or $586 million -- and has seen its stock price pl= unge more than 80 percent in the past three weeks.=20 Both Enron and Dynegy have extensive business dealings in Illinois, one of = the first states to begin deregulating its electric power industry; among o= ther things, Dynegy owns Illinois Power, a Downstate utility.=20 The new Dynegy would become one of the largest companies in the world, with= revenues exceeding $200 billion and assets of roughly $90 billion, company= officials said. By comparison, ExxonMobil, the nation's largest company, r= eported revenues of $232.7 billion in 2000.=20 ""We needed to do something to strengthen our balance sheet and get the inve= stor community focused on the core energy business,"" said Kenneth Lay, Enro= n's chairman and chief executive. ""We looked at several alternatives; this = was in the best interests of our employees and shareholders.""=20 Lay said he would not have a role in running the new company, but was consi= dering a request to serve on the newly combined board.=20 Watson, Dynegy's chairman, said the merger compact included escape clauses = for Dynegy. ""But, I wouldn't be standing here if I expected to see that (us= ed). I really believe the value degradation in Enron had nothing to do with= their core business. We looked under the hood, it is just as strong as we = thought it was.""=20 Still, Watson acknowledged the possibility that more problems may surface a= t Enron. ""I don't think anybody can absolutely unequivocally say there's no= thing (more) there,"" he said.=20 Dynegy's stock price closed higher Friday, rising $2.26, or 6.2 percent, to= $38.76. Enron's stock was down 33 cents, or 3.7 percent, at $8.63 a share.= =20 Together, the companies have natural gas sales of about 40 billion cubic fe= et per day through the third quarter of 2001 and power sales exceeding 500 = million megawatt hours through the third quarter of 2001. In addition, the = new Dynegy's delivery network will include more than 22,000 megawatts of ge= nerating capacity and 25,000 miles of interstate pipelines. In Enron, Dyneg= y is taking on a company saddled with a heavy debt load and a credit rating= that has been downgraded to near junk bond status and is under the cloud o= f a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation.=20 Under the stock for stock swap portion of the deal, valued at $8.846 billio= n, Dynegy is paying about $10.41 a share for the 850 million outstanding En= ron shares. Dynegy would pay .2685 shares of its stock for each share of En= ron.=20 In addition, Dynegy agreed to provide $1.5 billion infusion in cash to help= stabilize its much larger competitor and assume an estimated $15 billion i= n debt.=20 Just Thursday Enron reported that its debt was an estimated $12.9 billion p= ending completion of financial statements dated Sept. 30. A day later the c= ompany's accounting of its debt jumped $2 billion.=20 Dynegy's current shareholders, including Chevron Texaco Corp., will end up = owning 64 percent of the new company. Chevron Texaco said it would invest a= n additional $2.5 billion in Dynegy.=20 Enron's stockholders will own about 36 percent of the combined company's st= ock at closing, which is anticipated for the third quarter of 2002.=20 In Illinois, in addition to Illinois Power, Dynegy owns a Chicago area elec= tricity peaker plant and is a partner with Nicor Inc., in Nicor Energy, an = unregulated natural gas utility in the Chicago area.=20 Enron's subsidiary, Enron Energy Services, has a high-profile contract to p= rovide 60 percent of Chicago city government's electricity. It also has con= tracts to provide electricity to Quaker Oats Co. and the University of Chic= ago, among others.=20 In addition to Watson, other top Dynegy management will remain in place in = the new company. Steve Bergstrom, president of Dynegy Inc., and Rob Doty, c= hief financial officer of Dynegy Inc., will retain those positions in the c= ombined company. Enron's current president and chief operating officer, Gre= g Whalley, will become an executive vice president of the new Dynegy. The b= oard of directors of the combined company will be comprised of 14 members. = Dynegy's 11 designees will include three from ChevronTexaco. Enron will hav= e the right to designate a minimum of three board members. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business/Financial Desk; Section C Regulators Struggle With a Marketplace Created by Enron By JEFF GERTH with RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 11/10/2001 The New York Times=20 Page 1, Column 2 c. 2001 New York Times Company=20 WASHINGTON, Nov. 9 -- For years, the Enron Corporation used its political m= uscle to build the markets in which it thrived, pushing relentlessly on Cap= itol Hill and in bureaucratic backwaters to deregulate the nation's natural= gas and electricity businesses.=20 Its achievement, as one Enron executive said today, in creating a ''regulat= ory black hole'' fit nicely with what he called the company's ''core manage= ment philosophy, which was to be the first mover into a market and to make = money in the initial chaos and lack of transparency.'' Now, Wall Street's dissatisfaction with Enron's secretive ways has delivere= d the company into the arms of its much smaller Houston rival, Dynegy Inc.,= in a deal worth about $9 billion in stock and the assumption of $13 billio= n in debt. The combination of the two companies, energy experts and lawmake= rs said today, poses a novel set of challenges for regulators still struggl= ing to grasp the complexities of the marketplace that Enron invented.=20 ''We're in a supersonic-speed era of electronic trading with a horse-and-bu= ggy-era regulatory system to protect consumers,'' said Representative Edwar= d J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who has devised legislation to close = the regulatory gap.=20 Dynegy's acquisition of Enron is expected to be reviewed by numerous state = and federal agencies, led by the Justice Department, the Federal Trade Comm= ission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.=20 Analysts said today that sharp scrutiny would be given to the combined comp= anies' holdings in California, where Dynegy owns generating plants and Enro= n controls a large part of the market for trading natural gas -- the fuel f= or a big share of the state's electric power plants.=20 ''Dynegy would now have a greater ability to take the dominant position in = gas and raise the price of electricity,'' said Frank Wolak, a professor of = economics at Stanford University.=20 Mr. Wolak, a consultant to the Justice Department on a 1999 antitrust case = that led to limits on another merger of electricity and natural gas compani= es in Southern California, said he was skeptical that regulators were up to= the task of reviewing today's deal.=20 The transaction ''is something the Department of Justice needs to look at, = and they are going to have a hard time looking at,'' Mr. Wolak said. ''And = it's beyond the ability of the F.E.R.C. to look at.''=20 Pat Wood -- named chairman of the federal energy commission earlier this ye= ar with the backing of Kenneth L. Lay, the chairman of Enron -- acknowledge= d in an interview today that the agency had ''a long way to go'' in matchin= g the sophistication of the companies it regulates.=20 But he said that the commission had made great strides in grappling with th= e new risk management techniques pioneered by Enron, Dynegy and other energ= y companies. It is hiring more experts, he said, adopting more restrictive = rules on how much ''market power'' one party can control and requiring more= disclosure of certain energy transactions.=20 In an interview this evening, Charles L. Watson, the chairman of Dynegy, sa= id he did not believe that regulators reviewing the deal with Enron would r= equire the sale of any assets. ''We haven't really identified any pitfalls = that require any sort of asset divestiture,'' he said. ''There's not really= any overlap.''=20 A senior executive at one of Enron's largest energy-trading rivals disagree= d. ''I don't think this deal gets through unscathed,'' he said today. ''I'm= sure the Justice Department and the F.T.C. will look closely at the pretty= substantial concentration of market power these companies will have in the= energy-trading area.''=20 Enron is mainly a trader of natural gas and electricity -- indeed, the bigg= est player in both those markets -- and it also owns a network of gas pipel= ines. Dynegy processes and sells natural gas and generates and sells electr= icity. Each company owns a local electric utility, too: Dynegy owns Illinoi= s Power in Decatur, Ill., while Enron owns Portland General Electric in Por= tland, Ore., but last month announced plans to sell it to another Oregon ut= ility.=20 For a decade, as it transformed itself from a gas pipeline operator into th= e nation's biggest energy trader, Enron enjoyed unalloyed lobbying success = in Washington and the enthusiastic backing of Wall Street.=20 In the early months of the Bush administration, Mr. Lay -- whose company wa= s one of the biggest financial backers of George W. Bush's presidential cam= paign -- played a prominent, and some said unusual, role in helping the Whi= te House pick nominees to the federal energy commission. Enron executives m= et with Vice President Dick Cheney, whose energy task force backed many of = the deregulatory initiatives pushed by Mr. Lay.=20 Now, ''the company has become a pariah,'' an Enron executive said today. ''= The Bush administration doesn't want to have anything to do with us.''=20 The problems began with the energy crisis in California, where Enron's outs= poken defense of deregulation, even more than its electricity trading activ= ities, made the company a favorite whipping boy of politicians and consumer= advocates. In the financial markets, meanwhile, Enron's confusing disclosu= res, tolerated when its stock was soaring, drew disdain as the calming of t= he energy storms in California and other parts of the country beat the shar= es down, starting last spring.=20 ''Enron fell victim to their own inconsistencies on transparency,'' Mr. Wol= ak said. As California officials sought to understand why energy prices had= soared out of control, he said, Enron's ''view was that we want everybody'= s data, but if you want ours, get a subpoena.''=20 Energy executives and regulators said that sort of arrogance had long marke= d Enron's attitude about government oversight.=20 Electricity sales had for decades been the job of local utility companies, = operating as monopolies and selling power at regulated rates within their s= ervice areas. A few entrepreneurs, led by Mr. Lay, conceived a different mo= del in which power could be sold by generators or middlemen to big corporat= e users or utilities in faraway regions, at whatever price the market would= bear.=20 In the early 1990's, Congress -- under heavy lobbying by Enron -- passed le= gislation that began to open up electricity sales to marketers. Before long= , Enron became one of the first companies to receive government approval to= sell electricity at market rates. The market for interstate sales of natur= al gas had been freed up a few years earlier, and critics complained that t= raders like Enron were gleaning their profits by stoking volatility in gas = prices.=20 In the mid-1990's, independent gas producers backed legislation in Congress= to allow the creation of a co-operative marketing organization, which, the= y hoped, would have helped stabilize prices.=20 Raymond Plank, the chairman of the Apache Corporation, a gas producer based= in Houston, said that the big gas marketing and trading companies, includi= ng Enron, successfully lobbied to kill the plan, leaving prices as volatile= as ever.=20 ''It was a great concept,'' Mr. Plank said. ''We could have headed off the = problems we have today.''=20 Enron's final lobbying success came last year. With a strong push from the = company's lobbyists, Congress passed futures trading legislation that exemp= ted Internet energy trading platforms like EnronOnline, the industry leader= , from oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Enron takes t= he other side of trades on its exchange. In traditional markets like the Ne= w York Mercantile Exchange, which remain subject to oversight, the exchange= acts as a middleman between buyers and sellers.=20 Under Mr. Watson, Dynegy has been less of a pathbreaker than Enron, and tho= ugh California politicians denounced it, too, as a profiteer during the ene= rgy crisis, most analysts say it has been less aggressive than Enron in bot= h its business practices and its lobbying.=20 Indeed, the rival energy-trading executive today predicted ''a huge culture= clash'' as the Houston neighbors merge. ''Blood will flow in Houston over = the integration of the trading operation,'' he said.=20 But regulators may find Dynegy easier to deal with.=20 Earlier this year, the federal energy commission asked for comments on whet= her it should tighten scrutiny of dealings between natural gas pipelines an= d energy-trading shops owned by the same company.=20 Enron wondered what all the bother was. ''Would stricter rules prevent real= affiliate abuse that current rules do not,'' it wrote in a regulatory fili= ng, ''or would they instead merely restrict the activities of some of the m= ore successful participants in the marketplace?''=20 Dynegy, by contrast, painted a grim picture and invited regulators to crack= down. ''Abuses abound,'' it said, ''because of financial windfalls, diffic= ulty of detection, lengthy investigations and increased complexity of the m= arket.'' ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 =20 Report on Business: Canadian Dynegy to buy troubled rival Enron Reuter News Agency 11/10/2001 The Globe and Mail=20 Metro B4 ""All material Copyright (c) Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licenso= rs. All rights reserved.""=20 NEW YORK -- Energy provider Dynegy Inc. agreed yesterday to acquire fast-si= nking rival Enron Corp. for $9.5-billion (U.S.), signalling the demise of a= company that just months ago was one of Wall Street's highest fliers.=20 Terms of the transaction call for Dynegy to swap 0.2685 shares of its own s= tock for each Enron share, the companies said. That would value Houston-bas= ed Enron at $10.41 a share, including convertible stock, a premium of 21 pe= r cent over yesterday's closing price of $8.63. ChevronTexaco Corp., which owns a 27-per-cent stake in Dynegy, has agreed t= o infuse $1.5-billion immediately into Enron to support it until the deal c= loses. ""With its market-making capabilities, earnings power and proven stra= tegic approach to wholesale markets, Enron is the ideal strategic partner,""= said Dynegy chairman and chief executive officer Chuck Watson.=20 Enron, the United States' largest energy trader, has been struggling to ove= rcome a plummeting stock price and credit rating in the past month followin= g disclosures of deals being investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchan= ge Commission for possible conflict of interest. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 =20 Financial Desk The Nation Smaller Rival to Acquire Teetering Enron Power: Energy giant tha= t pressed for deregulation in California is on the brink of collapse. NANCY RIVERA BROOKS; THOMAS S. MULLIGAN; NANCY VOGEL TIMES STAFF WRITERS 11/10/2001 Los Angeles Times=20 Home Edition A-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company=20 Enron Corp., the once-highflying energy giant whose aggressive efforts to p= rofit from California's energy deregulation made it a target of consumer an= d political backlash, on Friday agreed to be saved from possible financial = collapse through a proposed acquisition by rival Dynegy Inc.=20 The roughly $7.7-billion deal is a stunning plot twist for Houston-based En= ron, which was vilified in California as it was being glorified on Wall Str= eet. In only the last month, a series of disturbing financial revelations p= ushed to the edge of ruin this once-powerful company, whose top executives = had lectured California on its energy foibles and who influenced the direct= ion of national energy policy. Enron muscled its way to the top of the energy heap using aggressive and, i= n the end, financially suspect strategies that proved its undoing.=20 Now, the company that late last year had a market value of $63 billion is w= orth one-tenth that and has agreed to be swallowed by a cross-town competit= or one-quarter its size. Enron's proud and influential chairman and chief e= xecutive, Kenneth L. Lay, who became a focus of bitter attacks by Californi= a politicians and regulators, would lose his job, as would many others at E= nron.=20 Even the name would disappear. The combined company would be called Dynegy = Inc. if the deal receives all the necessary regulatory and shareholder appr= ovals.=20 California officials took no joy in Enron's fate Friday, though there was p= erhaps some sense of retribution from its many critics in the state.=20 ""This is basically a rogue corporation,"" said Sen. Steve Peace (D-El Cajon)= , an outspoken critic of Enron for years who dealt with the company as he c= haired the committee that hammered out the legislative portion of Californi= a's landmark electricity deregulation plan in 1996. ""It has from the beginn= ing been a rogue corporation which answered in its mind to a higher law--a = fundamental belief that there are laws of economics that supersede the law = of the land.""=20 A Failed Experiment=20 Steve Maviglio, spokesman for Gov. Gray Davis, said that although Enron was= never a major force in California's doomed electricity market, it was outs= poken in support of deregulation.=20 ""In a sense, their experiment was much like California's experiment--a fail= ure,"" he said.=20 Said Harvey Rosenfield, president of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consum= er Rights in Santa Monica: ""Nothing could better illustrate the disaster of= deregulation than the fact that one of its biggest proponents, which reape= d the reward of deregulation, is suffering the consequences.""=20 Enron is the world's largest energy trader, handling one of four energy dea= ls in the United States through its online trading operation, EnronOnline. = Since it reported a surprising third-quarter loss on Oct. 16, partly tied t= o shadowy investment vehicles, Enron has endured a huge loss of investor co= nfidence, which brought on a massive cash crunch and some shrinkage of its = trading business.=20 Under the deal announced Friday, Dynegy, invited in two weeks ago after Enr= on fell short in its efforts to line up new financing, would immediately he= lp Enron by pouring $1.5 billion in cash into the company. The money would = be provided by ChevronTexaco Corp., the San Francisco oil company that owns= nearly 27% of Dynegy.=20 Enron shareholders would get 0.2685 Dynegy share for each Enron share, whic= h values the company at about $7.7 billion based on Friday's stock close. D= ynegy shares surged $2.26 to close at $38.76 per share on the New York Stoc= k Exchange; Enron added 22 cents to close at $8.63 per share, still off 89%= year to date.=20 If the deal closes in six to nine months, as the parties expect, Dynegy and= ChevronTexaco would invest $1 billion additionally in the combined company= .=20 ""This is just a financial bonanza really for both companies,"" said Charles = L. Watson, Dynegy chairman and chief executive, who will head the combined = company. Watson said the merger would immediately add to Dynegy's earnings.= =20 Even so, the repercussions of Enron's fall from grace could be far-reaching= . Coming on the heels of California's energy crisis, Enron's troubles may s= low the country's march toward energy deregulation, which Lay and Enron cha= mpioned for years as a potential boon to consumers and the economy in gener= al.=20 But the deal announced Friday will prevent an even worse outcome, energy ex= perts said: the threatened collapse of Enron, which would clog up for a tim= e the business of buying and selling electricity, natural gas and oil. That= could interfere with delivery of energy around the country, they said.=20 ""This is an encouraging development for the energy industry,"" said Stephen = Baum, chairman of Sempra Energy, the San Diego-based parent of Southern Cal= ifornia Gas and San Diego Gas & Electric. ""The Enron-Dynegy combination wil= l create a credit-worthy counter-party which will help preserve order in th= e marketplace. It also will reinforce confidence in the energy trading busi= ness going forward.""=20 But some in the industry are less pleased.=20 Raymond Plank, chairman of Apache Corp., a Houston-based natural gas explor= ation and development firm, said he is considering a motion to the Federal = Trade Commission against the proposed merger.=20 ""There are issues of concentration in a combination of the largest energy t= rader, Enron, and the fifth-largest, Dynegy,"" Plank said. ""California shoul= d be particularly concerned because Dynegy owns power plants there and Enro= n has pipelines and other interests.""=20 Troubles Mount as Stock Plunges=20 The swagger that was Enron is long gone. Consider:=20 * Enron's brash chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling, touted only months ag= o as one of the young stars of American business, abruptly resigned in Augu= st, citing personal reasons. Enron's stock already had fallen from its high= of nearly $90 per share as investments in water and telecommunications tur= ned sour, a fact that contributed to Skilling's departure.=20 * The Securities and Exchange Commission has launched an investigation of E= nron's controversial dealings with a number of limited partnerships, some o= rganized and run by Enron managers, including Enron Chief Financial Officer= Andrew S. Fastow, who was ousted last month.=20 * In an extraordinary confession Thursday, Enron announced that it had over= stated profit by $586 million, or 20%, during the last five years. The earl= ier financial statements reported to Wall Street and the investing public, = Enron said, ""should not be relied upon.""=20 * The company also fired its treasurer and a corporate lawyer, both of whom= it said were investors in one of the limited partnerships. Yet some analys= ts questioned whether, even in its admission of accounting trickery, Enron = wasn't still holding something back.=20 * Credit-rating agencies, which already have downgraded Enron's bonds to ba= rely above ""junk"" status, continue to pore over Enron's books. Analysts hav= e said a further downgrade to the level of junk, or below investment grade,= could precipitate a crisis akin to a run on a bank and threaten Enron's su= rvival while the merger is pending.=20 With its stock crumbling and trading partners leery about its ability to pa= y its debts, Enron was forced to walk hat in hand down Houston's Energy All= ey to negotiate a saving takeover by Dynegy, the rival once jokingly dismis= sed as ""Enron Lite.""=20 In the trading markets where Enron still holds a leading but increasingly v= ulnerable position, other players already are stepping up to grab a bigger = share of the business. Even if Enron's trading operation survives more or l= ess intact, under the wing of a Dynegy or some other company, experts said = it may never regain its former level of dominance.=20 ""Enron has been a very innovative shop, willing to spend considerably to es= tablish new markets,"" said analyst Andre Meade of Commerzbank Securities in= New York. ""If that culture is not kept, everyone loses.""=20 Skilling and mentor Lay had worked for a decade to create both a new kind o= f company and a new set of markets for it to play.=20 In large part, they succeeded. Enron transformed itself from a traditional = gas pipeline company into a high-tech global trader of everything from elec= tricity to pollution credits to aluminum. The company's overarching strateg= y was to pare its physical assets to the minimum to get the maximum profit = bang from its intellectual capital: the ranks of MBAs and PhDs that filled = its Houston trading floor.=20 Rather than maintain its own expensive gas fields and power plants--which i= t relegated to stodgy utilities and oil companies--Enron would handle every= thing by contract, relying on a network of suppliers to obtain, store and d= eliver the goods while the company focused on squeezing out the best price.= =20 Dynegy, in contrast, has invested in such energy assets, including three po= wer plants in Southern California. It uses those assets to back its trading= operation, which is much smaller than Enron's.=20 Enron pulled off a migration from the ""dirty"" extreme of the oil patch, the= asset-intensive domain of drillers and explorers, to the ""clean"" end, wher= e all the deals are done on a computer screen. It also was a migration from= lower profit margins and lower risk to high margins and high risk.=20 Shannon B. Burchett, chief executive of Risk Limited Corp., an energy-orien= ted strategic-management consultancy in Dallas, compared Enron to the inves= tment bank Salomon Bros., where he used to work in the former PhiBro commod= ities unit.=20 Enron, Burchett said, embodies ""a Wall Street culture that happens to be in= Houston.""=20 Wall Street certainly ""got it,"" or thought it did.=20 Accounting Rules Pushed to the Limit=20 At Enron's zenith last year, when its stock peaked near $90 a share and it = was pushing into esoteric markets for weather derivatives and fiber-optic b= andwidth, Enron seemed to be a one-company wave of the future.=20 Enron's aggressiveness, brainpower and willingness to back radical new idea= s with serious capital helped it acquire an aura that in some ways was its = undoing, analysts said.=20 Investors accorded Enron's stock a price-to-earnings valuation that was con= sistently higher than those of its peers, reflecting the view that its cutt= ing-edge business model could consistently deliver faster-growing profit th= an its competitors.=20 To keep profits arcing ever upward to justify the outsize valuation, Enron = began pushing the accounting rules as hard as it pushed competitors in the = trading arena. It acknowledged as much in its statement Thursday, conceding= that the operations of three of the limited partnerships should have been = consolidated with Enron's own financial statements instead of being held se= parate.=20 By raising capital and running deals through the limited partnerships, Enro= n could keep large amounts of debt and certain volatile assets off its own = balance sheet, while simultaneously booking profit from the partnerships' t= ransactions, analyst Meade said.=20 Deals Backed by Costly Guarantees=20 One risky aspect of some of Enron's deals through the partnerships was what= Meade called a ""double-trigger guarantee,"" under which Enron would pledge = a cash payout if either its bond rating fell below investment grade or its = stock declined below a certain price.=20 The guarantees must have seemed a cheap way to sweeten a deal when Enron's = stock was flying high, but they came back to haunt the company later, when = it had to pay cash to make good on its obligations, Meade said.=20 Other energy-trading companies use similar devices, but Enron carried it to= an extreme and disclosed too little detail to make the process understanda= ble to investors, he said.=20 Enron's magic, like that of the Internet-stock phenomenon, had never been e= asy to understand in the first place. The company had a reputation among an= alysts for providing scanty financial detail and hard-to-grasp explanations= of some of its dealings.=20 But as long as the reported profit kept climbing, Enron kept getting the be= nefit of the doubt.=20 M. Carol Coale, a respected Houston-based analyst for Prudential Securities= , ruefully recalled a time last winter when she told Enron she could find ""= no positive catalyst for the stock"" and was considering downgrading her inv= estment opinion.=20 Skilling telephoned Coale and asked her to hold off, promising her that the= re was unspecified good news on the horizon that would justify her faith.= =20 ""I believed him,"" Coale said last week in an interview in Houston. She held= her rating steady at that time but has since downgraded Enron to an outrig= ht ""sell.""=20 Instead of Skilling's promised good news, questions mounted during the spri= ng, and Enron's stock continued a steady decline. Coale and other analysts = were troubled that a large proportion of Enron's earnings seemed to come no= t from its core trading operations but from unusual transactions involving = the company's own stock or that of affiliates.=20 In California, Enron played a key role as chief cheerleader for electricity= deregulation and a key energy middleman in the state. As wholesale electri= city prices soared and the state plunged into its energy crisis late last y= ear, Enron and other out-of-state electricity generators and traders became= favorite targets of California politicians and regulators, who said the co= mpanies were manipulating the market and charging too much for power.=20 But significantly, California was not a directly successful territory for E= nron.=20 Markets in water did not develop as Enron subsidiary Azurix envisioned. And= Enron's plans for selling electricity to retail customers were deferred ev= en as deregulation took effect in 1998 because the state's deregulation for= mulas didn't allow room for retail competition.=20 Lay complained about California frequently and met with the governor to try= to influence the state's moves to repair its energy problems. In an interv= iew in his Houston office in January--overlooking Enron's new headquarters = building, which is still under construction as the company's name disappear= s--Lay said he and other Enron executives had objected to the way Californi= a regulation was set up.=20 ""We objected more vehemently than anyone. We opposed the concept of the poo= l,"" he said, referring to the now-defunct California Power Exchange, in whi= ch most of the state's power was bought and sold in an hourly market. ""What= competitive market in the world has a pool? We don't buy our groceries thr= ough a centralized PX.""=20 Enron also backed away from building a small power plant in California last= year when the state imposed price caps.=20 One of the loudest complaints by Davis and other California officials was t= hat generators of electricity were playing ""games"" to get higher prices.=20 They criticized Enron severely, too, even though it was not a major generat= or, because the level of its worldwide trading operations--buying and selli= ng contracts worth billions of dollars in electric power every day--gave En= ron immense sway over pricing and supplies of electricity. They also believ= e that Enron and Lay helped play a part in the reluctance of federal regula= tors for several months to place restraints on the California marketplace.= =20 CEO's Future Role Uncertain=20 ""Millions of people in California businesses lost money because this rogue = company succeeded in controlling the government of the United States,"" said= state Sen. Peace, one of the architects of the state's deregulation plan.= =20 ""Ken Lay was a mystic,"" Peace said. ""Whatever he said had to make sense bec= ause he was Ken Lay. It was hero worship.=20 ""Many of the people working as economists at the Federal Energy Regulatory = Commission worshiped Ken Lay. As a consequence, the things Enron promoted a= nd pushed for were never challenged, intellectually and otherwise.""=20 Lay, who has been asked to sit on the board of the combined company, said F= riday that he had not yet decided whether to accept.=20 He described his time building Enron as ""a very long ride. It's been a very= good ride for the most part.=20 ""I have to say the last few weeks have not been very much fun,"" he said.=20 *=20 Rivera Brooks reported from Los Angeles and Mulligan from Houston and New Y= ork. Times staff writer James Flanigan in Los Angeles contributed to this r= eport.=20 *=20 RELATED STORY=20 Fallen CEO: Enron's Lay is a brilliant man defeated by arrogance, associate= s say. A22=20 RELATED STORY=20 Energy crisis: Power firms have seen their fortunes dim in recent months. S= unday Business C1 PHOTO: Dynegy Chairman and Chief Executive Charles L. Watson, right, announ= ces the merger, with Enron Chairman Kenneth L. Lay.; ; PHOTOGRAPHER: Associ= ated Press; PHOTO: ""This is just a financial bonanza really for both compan= ies,"" says Charles L. Watson, Dynegy chairman and chief executive.; ; PHOTO= GRAPHER: Associated Press ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy to buy Enron Associated Press 11/10/2001 Deseret News=20 D07 Copyright (c) 2001 Deseret News Publishing Co.=20 HOUSTON -- Energy marketer Dynegy Inc. announced Friday that it will buy it= s much larger rival, the once mighty but now troubled Enron Corp., for $8 b= illion in stock. Dynegy also will assume a hefty $15 billion in Enron debt.= =20 The announcement came after Enron's stock price plummeted about 80 percent = over the past three weeks because of concerns that the company wasn't revea= ling serious financial problems to shareholders. Under the deal, ChevronTexaco Corp., which owns more than a quarter of Dyne= gy, would quickly provide about $1.5 billion. ChevronTexaco also would cont= ribute an additional $1 billion upon completion of the deal, the companies = said.=20 ""With its market-making capabilities, earnings power and proven strategic a= pproach to wholesale markets, Enron is the ideal strategic partner for Dyne= gy,"" Dynegy chairman and chief executive officer Chuck Watson said in annou= ncing the purchase.=20 Watson made it clear that he would not tolerate the sort of financial pract= ices that prompted explosive disclosures by Enron this week -- including an= admission that more than half a billion dollars in debt had been kept off = the company's books.=20 ""As a combined company, we will focus on leveraging our core skill sets and= , as always, we will keep a strong balance sheet and straightforward financ= ial structure as key priorities,"" Watson said.=20 Enron is the country's top buyer and seller of natural gas, and the No. 1 w= holesale power marketer. The company operates a 25,000-mile gas pipeline sy= stem, and also markets and trades metals, paper, coal, chemicals and fiber-= optic bandwidth.=20 Dynegy controls nearly 15,000 megawatts of power generating capacity throug= h investments in power projects, and sells the energy in wholesale markets = and through utilities.=20 At a news conference, Watson said company officials who negotiated the deal= came away convinced that Enron was worth buying despite its recent trouble= s.=20 ""We looked under the hood . . . it's just as strong as it ever was,"" Watson= said.=20 Under the terms of the deal, Enron shareholders will receive .2685 Dynegy s= hare for each share of Enron common stock, valuing each Enron share at $10.= 41. Enron has about 775 million common shares, said spokeswoman Karen Denne= .=20 That represents a 21 percent premium above Enron's closing price of $8.63 F= riday on the New York Stock Exchange -- but still just a fraction of their = 52-week high of $84.87. Dynegy's shares climbed $2.26, or 6 percent, to clo= se at $38.76 on the NYSE.=20 In after hours trading on the NYSE, Enron shares shot up 15.6 percent, or $= 1.35, to $9.98. Dynegy shares were unchanged.=20 Dynegy's stockholders will own approximately 64 percent of the new company,= with Enron's stockholders holding the remainder.=20 The boards of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction, whi= ch is expected to close next summer. The deal is expected to save the combi= ned company between $400 million and $500 million annually because of conti= nued elimination of ""non-core"" Enron holdings and lower operating costs.=20 Watson will remain as chairman and chief executive of the combined company,= which will retain the Dynegy Inc. name. Steve Bergstrom will remain as pre= sident of Dynegy.=20 Enron chairman and chief executive Kenneth L. Lay will no longer have a rol= e in day-to-day management of the company, but has been offered a seat on t= he combined company's board and will help shepherd the merger through.=20 ""I am personally committed to working with Chuck Watson, Steve Bergstrom an= d their colleagues in the months ahead to accomplish the merger and to buil= d a solid foundation for future value creation,"" Lay said.=20 Dynegy said that Greg Whalley, the current president and chief operating of= ficer of Enron, will become an executive vice president of the new Dynegy. = He said the merger sets the best course for Enron.=20 ""Few of the options we considered for our core business going forward provi= ded us with the earning potential and immediate synergies that a merger wit= h Dynegy could deliver,"" Whalley said. ""Together with Enron's recently anno= unced bank commitments, this cash infusion gives Enron immediate liquidity,= which we believe will enable the company to maintain its investment grade = credit rating.""=20 The merger was announced a day after Enron acknowledged it overstated earni= ngs by about 20 percent over the past four years and kept large amounts of = debt off its balance sheets through business partnerships now under investi= gation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.=20 Analysts said the merger rescues Enron, but leaves Dynegy in uncharted terr= itory -- with the outcome of the SEC investigation completely unknown. ""The= re is still a shroud hanging over Enron that now moves over to Dynegy,"" sai= d Carol Coale, an analyst with Prudential Securities. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Dynegy, Enron OK $25 billion deal ; New company would rank among largest Melita Marie Garza, Tribune staff reporter 11/10/2001 Chicago Tribune=20 North Final ; N 1 (Copyright 2001 by the Chicago Tribune)=20 Enron Corp., the nation's biggest power trader, was taken over by its small= er, more conservative rival, Dynegy Inc., in a merger deal valued at nearly= $25 billion, company officials announced Friday.=20 The combined company would retain the Dynegy name and would be headed by Ch= uck Watson, Dynegy's chairman and chief executive. If it wins regulatory an= d shareholder approval, the deal would propel Dynegy, the sixth-largest U.S= . power trader, to the No. 1 position, with more than 30 percent of the mar= ket. The Houston-based rivals are new-breed energy companies, formed to capitali= ze on wholesale power marketing and trading, with Dynegy emphasizing its ow= n power generation capabilities.=20 Enron, meanwhile, has been laid low in recent weeks by soured transactions = with energy partnerships run by one of its former executives and by a serie= s of revelations about questionable accounting practices. Enron this week w= as forced to restate its earnings over the past five years--revising them d= ownward by 20 percent, or $586 million --and has seen its stock price plung= e more than 80 percent in the past three weeks.=20 Both Enron and Dynegy have extensive business dealings in Illinois, one of = the first states to begin deregulating its electric power industry; among o= ther things, Dynegy owns Illinois Power, a downstate utility.=20 The new Dynegy would be one of the largest companies in the world, with rev= enues exceeding $200 billion and assets of roughly $90 billion, company off= icials said. By comparison, ExxonMobil Corp., the nation's largest company,= reported revenues of $232.7 billion in 2000.=20 ""We needed to do something to strengthen our balance sheet and get the inve= stor community focused on the core energy business,"" said Kenneth Lay, Enro= n's chairman and CEO. ""We looked at several alternatives; this was in the b= est interests of our employees and shareholders.""=20 Lay said he would not have a role in running the new company but was consid= ering a request to serve on the newly combined board.=20 Watson said the merger agreement included escape clauses for Dynegy, ""but I= wouldn't be standing here if I expected to see that [used]. I really belie= ve the value degradation in Enron had nothing to do with their core busines= s. We looked under the hood; it is just as strong as we thought it was.""=20 Still, Watson acknowledged the possibility that more problems may surface a= t Enron. ""I don't think anybody can absolutely unequivocally say there's no= thing [more] there,"" he said.=20 Dynegy's stock price closed higher Friday, rising $2.26, or 6.2 percent, to= $38.76. Enron's stock was up 22 cents, or 2.6 percent, at $8.63 a share.= =20 Through the third quarter of 2001, the companies together have natural gas = sales of about 40 billion cubic feet per day and power sales exceeding 500 = million megawatt hours. In addition, the new Dynegy's delivery network woul= d include more than 22,000 megawatts of generating capacity and 25,000 mile= s of interstate pipelines.=20 In Enron, Dynegy is taking on a company saddled with a heavy debt load, a c= redit rating that has been downgraded to near junk bond status and which is= under the cloud of a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation.=20 Big premium=20 Under the stock-for-stock-swap portion of the deal, valued at $8.846 billio= n, Dynegy is paying the equivalent of $10.41 a share for the 850 million ou= tstanding Enron shares, a 24 percent premium. Dynegy would pay .2685 shares= of its stock for each share of Enron.=20 In addition, Dynegy agreed to provide a $1.5 billion cash infusion to help = stabilize its larger competitor and to assume an estimated $15 billion in d= ebt.=20 On Thursday Enron reported that its debt was an estimated $12.9 billion pen= ding completion of financial statements dated Sept. 30. A day later the com= pany's accounting of its debt jumped $2 billion.=20 Dynegy's current shareholders, including Chevron Texaco Corp., will end up = owning 64 percent of the new company. Chevron Texaco said it would invest a= n additional $2.5 billion in Dynegy.=20 Enron's stockholders would own about 36 percent of the combined company's s= tock at closing, which is anticipated in the third quarter of 2002.=20 Chicago-area operations=20 In Illinois, in addition to Illinois Power, Dynegy owns a Chicago- area ele= ctricity peaker plant and is a partner with Nicor Inc. in Nicor Energy, an = unregulated natural gas utility in the Chicago market.=20 Enron's subsidiary, Enron Energy Services, has a high-profile contract to p= rovide 60 percent of Chicago's city government's electricity. It also has c= ontracts to provide power to Quaker Oats Co. and the University of Chicago,= among others.=20 In addition to Watson, other top Dynegy management would remain in place in= the new company. President Steve Bergstrom and Rob Doty, chief financial o= fficer, would retain those positions in the combined company. Enron's presi= dent and chief operating officer, Greg Whalley, would become an executive v= ice president.=20 The board of directors of the combined company would have 14 members. Dyneg= y's 11 designees would include three from ChevronTexaco. Enron would have t= he right to designate a minimum of three board members. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Enron Accepts $8 Billion Buyout Offer From Dynegy; Energy Giant Was Forced = to Negotiating Table After Disclosing That It Had Overstated Earnings Peter Behr Washington Post Staff Writer 11/10/2001 The Washington Post=20 FINAL E01 Copyright 2001, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved=20 Embattled Enron Corp. yesterday accepted a buyout offer valued at about $8 = billion from crosstown rival Dynegy Inc. If the deal is completed, it would= end Houston-based Enron's reign as the leader in the huge energy trading m= arkets that set the prices of power and natural gas in the nation.=20 Its cash dwindling and its credit rating hammered, Enron was forced to the = negotiating table after its recent disclosures that its obligations to a co= mplex web of partnerships involving company officials had caused the tradin= g powerhouse to overstate its earnings and obscure its total debt obligatio= ns. Four top Enron officials have resigned or been replaced since July and,= once Dynegy takes control, Enron's chairman and chief executive, Kenneth L= ay, will also leave the company. Lay said yesterday that he had not decided= whether to accept Dynegy's offer to serve on the combined company's board. ""It's been a good ride for a long time,"" Lay said in a conference call last= night. ""The last three weeks haven't been a whole lot of fun.""=20 The final deal was announced after the close of stock trading. Enron's shar= es -- which had fallen from $33 to $8 after the disclosures -- ended the da= y slightly higher, at $8.63. Dynegy's stock closed at $38.76, up $2.26.=20 Dynegy offered all stock for the Enron shares, so the total value of the de= al will fluctuate with Dynegy's stock price. Dynegy also said it would assu= me about $13 billion in Enron debt, bringing the total value of the transac= tion to around $21 billion.=20 Dynegy's rescue of Enron will begin with an immediate cash infusion of $1.5= billion, which will be supplied by ChevronTexaco Corp., a major Dynegy sto= ckholder. ChevronTexaco will invest another $1 billion in Dynegy after the = acquisition has passed regulatory review and is completed, which executives= said they expect will take six to nine months as Enron tries to unscramble= the complex partnerships that are now under investigation by the Securitie= s and Exchange Commission.=20 The takeover agreement gives Dynegy an escape clause permitting it to cance= l the purchase if Enron winds up with heavy regulatory fines or legal judgm= ents from shareholder suits tied to its handling of the partnerships.=20 Chuck Watson, Dynegy's chairman and chief executive, said in the conference= call that a close scrutiny over the past two weeks of Enron's financial co= ndition convinced him that the company's trading and pipeline businesses we= re solid. ""We looked under the hood, and guess what? It looked just as stro= ng as we thought it was."" Watson said he did not think more damaging disclo= sures were forthcoming from Enron.=20 Until the partnership mess, Enron was the nation's dominant energy trader, = and it had front-door political connections to the White House. Lay, its lo= ngtime chairman, raised more then $100,000 for the presidential election ca= mpaign of his friend George W. Bush. Enron rode the growth of energy tradin= g markets beginning in the mid-1990s, as first natural gas, and then electr= ic power sales were deregulated at the wholesale level. Its revenues leaped= from $9.2 billion in 1995 to $100.8 billion last year.=20 During those heady times, the Houston company could choose which questions = to answer about its dealings with related partnerships and its Byzantine bo= okkeeping.=20 ""It was always very difficult to get information,"" said Louis B. Gagliardi,= an analyst with John S. Herold Inc. ""They would always rebuff you.""=20 Until this fall, the muscular company seemed too big to stumble, said inves= tment manager David Coxe, with Harris Insight Equity Fund in Chicago.=20 Coxe bought 78,000 shares of Enron at $40 a share in August, after wrestlin= g with the decision for months, he said. Then Jeffrey Skilling, Enron's chi= ef executive and strategic mastermind, unexpectedly resigned. The stock, wh= ich had been as high as $90 in August 2000, pitched downward.=20 ""Enron seemed so indispensable to the nation's energy markets that I though= t it inconceivable it could implode,"" Coxe said. ""That's how I got sucked i= n.""=20 Enron's fall is ""classic hubris,"" Coxe said: a Greek tragedy striking someo= ne who chose to defy the gods -- ""in this case, the rules of the system.""= =20 Among the rules that Enron now acknowledges it didn't follow were the accou= nting standards that applied to the complex partnerships it created. The pu= rpose of the partnerships, Enron said, was to reduce the risks of investmen= ts in Internet transmission systems and to sell power plants and other asse= ts it no longer wanted.=20 The accounting errors were described in a 20-page SEC filing Enron made Thu= rsday. The errors resulted in a $1.2 billion reduction in the value of shar= eholders' equity. The company also said it had overstated its earnings by $= 586 million since 1997.=20 Enron created partnerships that would buy major assets -- such as a power p= lant -- that Enron wanted to sell, or in other cases, assets such as fiber-= optic cable networks that Enron intended to run but did not want to have on= its balance sheet.=20 The partnerships had outside investors, but the general partner of two of t= hem was Enron's own chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow. He earned $30 m= illion in fees from managing two of the largest partnerships, according to = the SEC document.=20 Enron added to the capital of these partnerships by pledging its stock, or = securities convertible into stock. Some of those stock transactions should = have been counted as loans, resulting in the $1.2 billion drop in sharehold= er equity, Enron now says.=20 Investors are asking why Enron's auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP, did not insi= st that these transactions be handled that way in the first place. Enron's = SEC filing mentions but does not explain some ""proposed audit adjustments"" = over the past four years that were overruled.=20 Even though, as Enron now acknowledges, it created an information barrier, = masking critical information and violating standard accounting rules, many = financial analysts who were recommending the stock to investors were not pu= shing hard enough to punch through that barrier, some analysts acknowledge.= =20 ""It was so complicated that everybody was afraid to raise their hands and s= ay, 'I don't understand it,' "" Gagliardi said.=20 The questions are now coming, from a new committee reporting to Enron's boa= rd that will investigate how the company's financial reporting was handled;= from the SEC; and, eventually, from teams of lawyers representing aggrieve= d shareholders.=20 Lay indicated yesterday he had not been aware until recently that Enron emp= loyees other than Fastow had profited from the partnership activity. Enron = directors had approved Fastow's management of the partnerships, but Fastow = quit the partnerships in July and was then replaced as chief financial offi= cer.=20 Enron this week fired Treasurer Ben Glisan and Kristina Mourdant, an Enron = division lawyer, who it said had invested in partnerships that were tied to= one of the major partnerships headed by Fastow. The Enron report to the SE= C describes a central role in these transactions played by Michael J. Koppe= r, an associate of Fastow who left Enron in July to take over Fastow's fina= ncial interests in the partnership, the company said.=20 Enron will hold a conference call next week to discuss what it has uncovere= d about outside partnership investments. http://www.washingtonpost.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Desk The Nation NEWS ANALYSIS A Visionary Fallen From Grace JAMES FLANIGAN TIMES STAFF WRITER 11/10/2001 Los Angeles Times=20 Home Edition A-22 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company=20 A year ago, Enron Corp. Chairman Kenneth L. Lay was on top of the energy wo= rld. As a leading fund-raiser, contributor and energy advisor to the Bush a= dministration, he played a key role in shaping the new president's energy p= olicy. As head of the world's largest energy trading company, he had an eno= rmous influence on the price of energy in California and across the nation.= Enron's highflying stock helped him cash out $123 million in stock options= last year alone.=20 On Friday, with Enron being saved from financial collapse by agreeing to be= acquired by rival Dynegy Inc., Lay's career and reputation are in shambles= . Under the merger, he will be stripped of a management job. His integrity = is tattered, with Enron's controversial financial dealings under federal in= vestigation. Enron investors and employees are chagrined and outraged becau= se the company's stock lost 80% of its value in recent weeks. The rapid rise and fall of Lay, 58, is a story of how a brilliant man with = innovative ideas and a grand scheme to transform the world's energy markets= was overcome with arrogance, associates and critics say. Under Lay, Enron = stretched the limits of the law and took risks that nearly caused its finan= cial collapse, they say. That in turn could have resulted in a widespread d= isruption in energy supplies.=20 ""Enron's behavior casts doubt on the integrity of our financial markets. It= is a very serious matter,"" said Edward R. Muller, an energy investor and f= ormer president of Edison International's Mission Energy subsidiary.=20 ""Nobody denies he's smart, but it's a question of integrity,"" said Raymond = Plank, chief executive of Apache Corp. and an associate of Lay's in Houston= 's vibrant oil and gas industry.=20 Lay and longtime partner Jeffrey K. Skilling, who served briefly as Enron's= chief executive before resigning abruptly in August, rose to prominence in= the last decade through the use of innovative financial techniques designe= d to exploit a reduction in government regulation of energy.=20 Lay transformed world energy industries through his vision of new, market-d= riven ways to finance natural gas and electricity production and transmissi= on.=20 The financial markets that Lay and his Enron associates created had an enor= mous effect on California's disastrous experiment in electricity deregulati= on. Critics say his influence was excessive and misguided.=20 ""Ken Lay was a mystic,"" said state Sen. Steve Peace (D-El Cajon), an outspo= ken critic of Enron. ""Whatever he said had to make sense because he was Ken= Lay. It was hero worship. Many of the people working as economists at the = Federal Energy Regulatory Commission worshiped Ken Lay. As a consequence, t= he things Enron promoted and pushed for were never challenged, intellectual= ly and otherwise.""=20 Lay, who has a doctorate in economics, had modest beginnings as the son of = a poor country preacher who did farm labor on the side to raise money for h= is children's education. In the Navy in the late 1960s, Lay was assigned to= the Defense Department because of his economic acumen. ""He allocated Penta= gon dollars more efficiently in purchasing for the military,"" said Mark Pal= mer, chief spokesman for Enron.=20 Lay worked for Exxon and other energy firms in the 1970s, amid soaring oil = prices, gasoline shortages and still-regulated natural gas. He headed Houst= on Natural Gas, a predecessor firm of Enron, in the 1980s as falling prices= for oil and natural gas presented grave problems for Houston's energy indu= stries.=20 When the federal government allowed pipelines to carry the gas of any produ= cer, Lay turned Enron into a foremost firm in the new, deregulated industry= . Still, Enron almost went bankrupt in the late 1980s, with natural gas in = oversupply and prices falling.=20 It was then that Skilling, a McKinsey & Co. consultant, suggested to Lay th= at the firm trade long-term contracts for gas, promising to deliver the com= modity to customers at fixed prices, buying and selling contracts of varyin= g maturities ""the way mortgage companies deal with mortgages,"" in Skilling'= s words.=20 The innovation started Enron's rapid growth and rise to prominence as the e= mbodiment of a new kind of energy company. In the 1990s, the federal govern= ment called for deregulation of electricity.=20 Lay saw opportunities. He and Skilling created a market for contracts in el= ectricity in 1994, and by 1996 Enron was the world's leading firm doing suc= h business.=20 Lay's central idea was that, by creating a market of millions of buyers and= sellers constantly taking positions, power supplies could be allocated eff= iciently and prices lowered. Lay liked to lecture, in an avuncular way, abo= ut the new economics of energy trading.=20 ""Technology is changing, and there's a lot more value in flexibility and op= tionality. Just about in every industry, you can make them a lot more effic= ient when you have more optionality,"" Lay said in an interview in January i= n his Houston offices overlooking the sparkling new Enron headquarters buil= ding, which still is under construction.=20 As Enron's business profile grew, so did Lay's political influence. He serv= ed as an energy advisor to both Bush administrations and headed Texas fund-= raising for George W. Bush's presidential campaign. Lay raised $100,000 for= the Bush-Cheney campaign, and with his wife, Linda, Lay contributed anothe= r $100,000 to help finance the inaugural gala this year.=20 As the administration prepared its energy plan, Lay gained national stature= as a preacher of market economics applied to electricity.=20 ""There's no way you can centralize a command-control environment and make t= he best decisions to have an efficient, low-cost, reliable electricity indu= stry,"" Lay said.=20 His sermon was intended for California, which suffered sharply higher price= s for electricity last winter, to the point that private utilities fell int= o or near bankruptcy and the state budget incurred a cost of $12 billion, w= hich Sacramento now is trying to recover through the sale of revenue bonds.= =20 Because Enron, trading billions of dollars a day in power contracts worldwi= de, had an immense effect on electricity prices, Lay's preaching grated on = state officials. Driven to intemperance, state Atty. Gen. Bill Lockyer said= in May that he'd like to ""escort"" Lay to a prison cell.=20 But more than economic philosophy was behind Lay's goading of California. T= he state's debacle gave energy deregulation a bad name and chilled deregula= tion moves by many other states.=20 That in turn reduced growth prospects for Enron. The promise of continued g= rowth in deregulation had helped make Enron a Wall Street darling. Its stoc= k price, at one point nearly $90 a share versus less than $10 now, pushed u= p the value of Enron stock options, held by almost all employees but owned = in great amounts by Lay, Skilling and other company officers.=20 Lay cashed in last year, converting options for a gain of $123 million, whi= le Skilling gained $62 million by converting his options. As they cashed in= , Enron was encountering other problems. Attempts to set up trading markets= in water and broadband Internet transmission were floundering. A major pow= er plant venture in India was in grave economic and political trouble.=20 But in the last month, Enron revealed that it had reduced the firm's equity= value by more than $1 billion due to write-offs in a hitherto hidden partn= ership.=20 Revelations then cascaded. The firm had 33 such partnerships, which had bil= lions of dollars in debt for which Enron was liable. Lay and Skilling piled= up debt in hidden partnerships, analysts explain, because the firm needed = huge amounts of debt to support its greatly expanding levels of trading in = electricity, natural gas and other commodities.=20 But the firm could not support such debt and still retain its credit rating= , growth rate and high stock price. After weeks of gamely protesting that t= he business was sound and that he personally took offense at investment ana= lysts' suggestions of impropriety, Lay fell silent.=20 *=20 Times staff writer Nancy Vogel in Sacramento contributed to this report. PHOTO: With the takeover of his once-soaring firm, Enron chief Kenneth Lay'= s career is in tatters.; ; PHOTOGRAPHER: Reuters ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Struggling Enron agrees to takeover by smaller rival Dynegy One-time energy= giant and Southern Co. often scrapped over access to markets MATTHEW C. QUINN STAFF 11/10/2001 The Atlanta Journal - Constitution=20 Home F.1 (Copyright, The Atlanta Journal and Constitution - 2001)=20 Energy giant Enron Corp. capitulated to a mounting financial crisis Friday = and agreed to be taken over by a smaller competitor. But Atlanta-based Sout= hern Co. was not gloating at the misfortunes of its vanquished rival.=20 It wasn't easy. For years, the two companies were locked in a struggle over access to elect= ricity markets. Enron pushed for competition and deregulation, while Southe= rn resisted to protect its dominance in the fast-growing Southeast.=20 Sometimes the battle got nasty.=20 ""If Thomas Alva Edison came back from the dead and called Southern Co. to g= et some electricity, he'd find that nothing has changed,"" Jeffrey Skilling,= then Enron's president, said in November 1997. ""These guys are living in a= n industry that was created 100 years ago, and they want to keep it that wa= y.""=20 Fast forward four years.=20 Southern Co. has split itself in two, retaining its regulated Southeastern = utility business and spinning off its own unregulated power generation and = energy trading arm, Mirant Corp. Southern reported net income of $1 billion= for the first nine months of this year, and Mirant's profits were $538 mil= lion. Southern's shares are up 19 percent this year. Mirant's have declined= 7 percent.=20 Enron, on the other hand, lost 90 percent of its stock market value this ye= ar alone and this past week restated earnings for the past 4 1/2 years, red= ucing profit by more than $500 million.=20 Skilling was named chief executive in February but abruptly resigned after = six months. This week he was subpoenaed to testify in a Securities and Exch= ange Commission probe of the Texas company's questionable relationships wit= h outside partnerships.=20 Houston-based Dynegy Corp., a crosstown rival, said late Friday it will buy= Enron --- once valued at $69 billion --- for $7.8 billion in stock.=20 Enron will be wrapped into a ""new Dynegy"" managed by top Dynegy executives.= That suggested even the name Enron --- synonymous with innovation in recen= t years in the utility industry --- will go by the wayside.=20 Southern spokesman Todd Terrell declined to comment earlier in the day on E= nron's problems.=20 A.W. ""Bill' Dahlberg, who retired as Southern's chief executive in April an= d is now Mirant's board chairman, said he regretted Enron's troubles.=20 ""They were a rival and got credit for doing a lot of innovative things in o= ur industry,"" Dahlberg said. ""You always like to win the competition becaus= e you do well, not because somebody else does badly.""=20 Enron was a pioneer in the wholesale trading of electricity and natural gas= , and has been widely imitated, from Mirant's sprawling energy trading floo= r at Perimeter Center to an energy management subsidiary launched this year= by AGL Resources, parent of Atlanta Gas Light Co.=20 As the largest U.S. energy trading firm, Enron's tentacles run deep. It was= active at the Public Service Commission in 1998 when rules for Georgia's n= atural gas deregulation were written, only to opt out of becoming a gas mar= keter itself. But New Power Co., which is 45 percent owned by Enron, became= Georgia's newest marketer this year.=20 A Dynegy-Enron combination will create a $200 billion-a-year enterprise tha= t will dwarf Mirant in both the electricity and natural gas sectors.=20 Dynegy and Mirant are considered more stable than was Enron because they re= ly more on their own power plants for electricity and less on trading for p= ower produced by others. And Dynegy is no stranger to Georgia. It is a mino= rity partner with AGL Resources in Georgia Natural Gas Services, the state'= s No. 1 gas marketer.=20 But the partners have been at odds for months.=20 AGL sued Dynegy in July, alleging it ""earned millions of dollars at the exp= ense"" of the marketing company that it supplies with natural gas.=20 Dynegy's counterclaim accused AGL, among other things, of scheming to shift= the partnership's gas supply deal to AGL's own subsidiary, Houston-based S= equent Energy Management.=20 Dynegy in May started up a 500 megawatt natural gas-fired power plant in He= ard County despite opposition from nearby residents. Dynegy is also a major= buyer of electricity produced at Southern Co.'s new power plant in Jackson= County.=20 ""They're a big customer, a partner and a competitor --- all of those things= ,"" said Southern's Terrell. Graphic POWER POWERHOUSE A merger of Enron Corp. and Dynegy Corp. would cre= ate an energy powerhouse. Atlanta-based Mirant Corp. would be far behind, b= ased on second-quarter figures. Top 20 North American Gas Marketers, 2nd qu= arter 2001 Company........................ Billions of cubic feet a day 1..= .Enron...................... 24.6 2...Reliant.................... 13.2 3...= Duke Energy................ 12.8 4...BP..........................12.3 5...M= irant......................11.8 6...Dynegy......................10.9 7...Aq= uila Energy.............. 10.3 8...Sempra......................10.1 9...El = Paso......................9.2 10. American Electric Power......8.5 ........= ................ Top 10 North American Power Marketers, 2nd quarter 2001 Co= mpany........................Millions of megawatt hours 1...Enron..........= ............212.5 2...American Electric Power....134.5 3...Duke Energy.....= ...........118.1 4...Reliant Resources.......... 86.1 5...PG&E National Ene= rgy Grp... 73.2 6...Dynegy......................70.1 7...Mirant............= ..........69.7 8...Aquila......................66.3 9. Williams............= ........ 63.4 10. Exelon Power Team.......... 52.5 Source: Natural Gas Week ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 BUSINESS Dynegy to Acquire Troubled Enron / Energy giants in $7.8B stock deal COMBINED NEWS SERVICES 11/10/2001 Newsday=20 ALL EDITIONS A16 (Copyright Newsday Inc., 2001)=20 Houston - Energy marketer Dynegy Inc. announced Friday it will buy much lar= ger rival Enron Corp. for $7.8 billion in stock.=20 The announcement came after Enron's stock plummeted about 80 percent in the= past three weeks over concerns that the company wasn't revealing serious f= inancial problems to shareholders. ""Dynegy is taking out a competitor, acquiring some attractive assets, and t= hey're doing it at an incredible price,"" said Joseph Correnti, an analyst a= t Wayne Hummer Investments.=20 The two Houston-based companies began negotiations a week ago as it became = apparent Enron needed cash to stay in business. Dynegy, which is 26-percent= owned by ChevronTexaco Corp., agreed to the deal after Moody's Investors S= ervice maintained an investment-grade rating on Enron, eliminating a stumbl= ing block in negotiations.=20 The combined company will have annual revenue of more than $200 billion, ra= nking it as one of the nation's 10 largest. It will have more than 22,000 m= egawatts of electric generating capacity and 25,000 miles of natural gas pi= peline.=20 On Thursday, Enron acknowledged it overstated earnings by about 20 percent = over the past four years and kept large amounts of debt off its balance she= et through business partnerships now under investigation by the Securities = and Exchange Commission. Enron said financial statements from 1997 through = the first half of 2001 ""should not be relied upon.""=20 Revised statements reduced Enron's profits for those years by $586 million = and increased its debt by $628 million.=20 During its recent turmoil, Enron fired chief financial officer Andrew Fasto= w, who ran some of the partnerships under investigation by the SEC.=20 Dynegy chief executive Charles Watson will head the combined company.=20 The terms of the deal value each Enron share at $10.41, based on Friday's c= losing stock prices. That represents a 21-percent premium above Enron's clo= sing price of $8.63. Dynegy's shares closed at $38.76, up 6 percent.=20 It was not immediately clear what role Enron chairman and chief executive K= enneth L. Lay would have in the new company.=20 While Watson has led a diversified company that put as much emphasis on bui= lding power plants as on energy trading, Lay focused on the wholesale tradi= ng of natural gas and electricity. He had expanded Enron in the 1980s from = a natural gas pipeline into the most formidable competitor in the business = of energy trading, which was created by deregulation of energy markets in t= he United States and Europe. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Dynegy announces $8 billion deal to buy larger rival Enron By JUAN A. LOZANO Associated Press Writer 11/09/2001 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 HOUSTON (AP) - Energy marketer Dynegy Inc. announced Friday that it will bu= y its much larger rival, the once mighty but now troubled Enron Corp., for = $8 billion in stock. Dynegy also will assume a hefty $15 billion in Enron d= ebt.=20 The announcement came after Enron's stock price plummeted about 80 percent = over the past three weeks because of concerns that the company wasn't revea= ling serious financial problems to shareholders. Under the deal, ChevronTexaco Corp., which owns more than a quarter of Dyne= gy, would quickly provide about $1.5 billion. ChevronTexaco also would cont= ribute an additional $1 billion upon completion of the deal, the companies = said.=20 ""With its market-making capabilities, earnings power and proven strategic a= pproach to wholesale markets, Enron is the ideal strategic partner for Dyne= gy,"" Dynegy chairman and chief executive officer Chuck Watson said in annou= ncing the purchase.=20 Watson made it clear that he would not tolerate the sort of financial pract= ices that prompted explosive disclosures by Enron this week - including an = admission that more than half a billion dollars in debt had been kept off t= he company's books.=20 ""As a combined company, we will focus on leveraging our core skill sets and= , as always, we will keep a strong balance sheet and straightforward financ= ial structure as key priorities,"" Watson said.=20 Enron is the country's top buyer and seller of natural gas, and the No. 1 w= holesale power marketer. The company operates a 25,000-mile gas pipeline sy= stem, and also markets and trades metals, paper, coal, chemicals, and fiber= -optic bandwidth.=20 Dynegy controls nearly 15,000 megawatts of power generating capacity throug= h investments in power projects, and sells the energy in wholesale markets = and through utilities.=20 At a news conference, Watson said company officials who negotiated the deal= came away convinced that Enron was worth buying despite its recent trouble= s.=20 ""We looked under the hood and, guess what, it's just as strong as we though= t it was,"" Watson said.=20 Under the terms of the deal, Enron shareholders will receive .2685 Dynegy s= hare for each share of Enron common stock, valuing each Enron share at $10.= 41. Enron has about 775 million common shares, said spokeswoman Karen Denne= .=20 That represents a 21 percent premium above Enron's closing price of $8.63 F= riday on the New York Stock Exchange - but still just a fraction of their 5= 2-week high of $84.87. Dynegy's shares climbed $2.26, or 6 percent, to clos= e at $38.76 on the NYSE.=20 In after hours trading on the NYSE, Enron shares shot up 15.6 percent, or $= 1.35, to $9.98. Dynegy shares were unchanged.=20 Dynegy's stockholders will own approximately 64 percent of the new company,= with Enron's stockholders holding the remainder.=20 The boards of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction, whi= ch is expected to close next summer. The deal is expected to save the combi= ned company between $400 and $500 million annually because of continued eli= mination of ""non-core"" Enron holdings and lower operating costs. Watson sai= d it was too soon to say if the deal would result in job cuts. Enron has ab= out 20,000 employees, while Dynegy's work force is about 6,000.=20 Watson will remain as chairman and chief executive of the combined company,= which will retain the Dynegy Inc. name. Dynegy's Steve Bergstrom will cont= inue as president.=20 Enron chairman and chief executive Kenneth L. Lay will no longer have a rol= e in day-to-day management of the company, but has been offered a seat on t= he combined company's board and will help shepherd the merger through.=20 Dynegy said that Greg Whalley, the current president and chief operating of= ficer of Enron, will become an executive vice president of the new Dynegy. = He said the merger sets the best course for Enron.=20 ""Few of the options we considered for our core business going forward provi= ded us with the earning potential and immediate synergies that a merger wit= h Dynegy could deliver,"" Whalley said. ""Together with Enron's recently anno= unced bank commitments, this cash infusion gives Enron immediate liquidity,= which we believe will enable the company to maintain its investment grade = credit rating.""=20 The merger was announced a day after Enron acknowledged it overstated earni= ngs by about 20 percent over the past four years and kept large amounts of = debt off its balance sheets through business partnerships now under investi= gation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.=20 Analysts said the merger rescues Enron, but leaves Dynegy in uncharted terr= itory - with the outcome of the SEC investigation completely unknown. ""Ther= e is still a shroud hanging over Enron that now moves over to Dynegy,"" said= Carol Coale, an analyst with Prudential Securities.=20 Early Friday, Moody's Investors Service downgraded Enron's debt ratings to = one level above junk bond status and said the company's long-term debt rati= ngs remain under review for further downgrade.=20 In an SEC filing, Enron said financial statements from 1997 through the fir= st half of 2001 ""should not be relied upon"" and that outside businesses run= by Enron officials during that period should have been included in the com= pany's earnings reports.=20 The revised statements reduced Enron's profits for those years by $586 mill= ion, from $2.89 billion to $2.31 billion. The revisions also increased the = company's debt each of the four years, reaching $10.86 billion - $628 milli= on more than previously reported - by the end of 2000.=20 Keeping the debt off its balance sheets likely ensured Enron could maintain= a strong credit rating to support expansion of its core businesses - whole= sale trading of natural gas and electricity.=20 But the company's stock price started dropping 10 months ago when its high-= speed Internet unit foundered and Enron had trouble collecting money from p= ower customers in India.=20 The stock price began to free fall after Enron announced a $618 million thi= rd quarter loss, and news of the SEC investigation surfaced.=20 Enron responded by firing its chief financial officer and scrambled to get = cash and increase credit lines in an attempt to regain investor confidence,= but investors dumped Enron shares and sent its stock plummeting.=20 The ousted chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow, ran some of the partners= hips under investigation by the SEC.=20 Jeff Skilling, Enron's former chief executive who left in August, has been = called to testify before the SEC, although it's unclear when.=20 ---=20 On the Net:=20 http://www.enron.com=20 http://www.dynegy.com AP Graphic DYNEGY ENRON ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. =20 
WE HAVE A DEAL! Attached are the final communication materials.  The only changes are the addition of legend language at the end of the external Q&A, employee email, messages and talking points, and a change in one question in the external and internal Q&A (Q: When will the 10Q be filed? A: It is scheduled to be filed on November 14.) Please forward these materials to your direct reports as briefing materials for floor/staff meetings.  We will run the ETV ad notifying employees to check their email for an important video message through the weekend and Monday morning.  Call me if you have any questions. Thank you all for your assistance in communicating these messages with employees. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- press release, issued by Dynegy and posted on www.enron.com in the Press Room -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- external Q&A for use with the media and external audiences -- internal Q&A for background use in meetings with employees -- intranet Q&A posted on the web for employees 
Attached are the latest communication materials.  We DO NOT have a deal yet, but I am sending these so that you have time to review before holding floor/staff meetings in the event we have an announcement later today.  Please do not forward these materials, as they are not yet final.  If there are any changes in these materials when the deal becomes final, I will resend them.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages, for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- External Q&A, for use with the media and external audiences -- Internal Q&A, for background use in meetings with employees -- Intranet Q&A, posted on the web for employees 
Attached are the latest communication materials.  We DO NOT have a deal yet, but I am sending these so that you have time to review before holding floor/staff meetings in the event we have an announcement later today.  Please do not forward these materials, as they are not yet final.  If there are any changes in these materials when the deal becomes final, I will resend them.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages, for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- External Q&A, for use with the media and external audiences -- Internal Q&A, for background use in meetings with employees -- Intranet Q&A, posted on the web for employees 
Please review the revised attached press release, which we would like to send out as soon as possible.  Please call Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached is a new draft press release.  First thing in the morning, we need to discuss whether to release this.  Please contact Steve Kean, Mark Palmer or me with your comments. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Attached for your review is the latest press release announcing Rebecca Mark's resignation from the Enron board and an employee memo we would like to send via email to all Enron employees.  If you have any comments or changes, please let me know by noon. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Ken -- You are scheduled to do a 30-minute telephone interview on Thursday at 9:30 a.m. with Heidrick & Struggles, which is publishing a journal for the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos in January 2001.  This publication will cover corporate leadership and human capital issues in the new economy.  They want to talk to you for a chapter on ""Leading a Transformation into the New Economy.""   The interviewer will be Stephen Miles, and he has submitted the following questions in advance of your conversation.  I will come to your office at 9:30 a.m. to place the call. Thank you. Karen 1. Enron over the past decade has become the most vigorous change agent in its industry.  From a leadership perspective, how have you created a culture of change in an industry not known for change? 2. Nortel Networks has clearly made an outstanding transformation into the New Economy, similar to Enron's evolution. In Nortel's case, John Roth bought Bay Networks and infused the Nortel culture with Bays - almost a reverse cultural transformation.  How did you create a New Economy culture where innovation, risk-taking and new ideas are embraced and rewarded? 3. Are there some best practices you can share with other CEOs and Managing Directors regarding leading a change? 4. At best, change is difficult. But being able to change before you have to has only been accomplished successfully by a few companies.  How did you lead a change effort when you were arguably still a very successful utility? 5. Peter Drucker has said than in stable time you need good management but in disruptive times you need leadership.  How have you been able to attract and retain what Fortune magazine has called the best management team? 6. The New Economy is really all about creating a culture of innovation, where employees see opportunity and not barriers. Enron has been masterful at this from gas, to electricity, pulp & paper, and now bandwidth. As the ""keeper of the culture"" how did you establish and maintain such a culture? 7. As Enron moves away from Plant, Property and Equipment towards Intangible Assets, what has changed for you as a leader in the age of intangibles? 8. Can you list the four or five ""must have"" competencies for the 21st Century CEO? What experiences are necessary? 9. Lets talk about going global. You have made very impressive in-roads in India where no other utility has been able to. How did you lead this effort? Are there any best practices you can share with your fellow CEO's who are thinking about India? 10. Lets now move to Europe. Enron is the largest gas and power trader in Europe. Can you discuss your move into Europe? Again are there some 
I am pleased to announce that Vance Meyer joins the corporate public relations team today as director of media relations.  Vance comes to Enron from Connecticut-based The Stanley Works, where he worked for three years as director of communications and public affairs and was responsible for corporate media, community and government relations, employee communications and charitable contributions for the $2.8 billion tool company.  Prior to Stanley, Vance worked for General Electric for 12 years in several positions, both at the company's headquarters and at various field locations.  While at Stanley and GE, Vance developed strong media relations skills, working with key trade and mainstream business and finance publications.  At GE, Vance managed a Business Week cover story on Jack Welch, as well as cover stories in CIO and Chief Executive magazines. Vance has a bachelor's degree in journalism from Ball State University in Indiana.  He and his wife, Theresa, and their 18-month-old son, Sam, are relocating to Houston. 
Ken -- Continental Airlines magazine is doing a cover story on you for their April issue.  The interview is scheduled for Nov. 30.   I've scheduled a photo shoot for you on Dec. 8 in the office, but since they'll need several photos for the article, the photographer has asked if you're willing to have your photo taken in your home, as well.   If not, do you have any suggestions for alternate locations?  They're looking for a natural, comfortable setting. Please let me know.  Thank you. 
Ken --=20 Investor's Business Daily would like to write a profile of you for their=20 ""Leaders & Success"" page.  The daily feature is a 1200-word profile with a= =20 top executive about their keys to success and how they motivate people.   Y= ou=20 are scheduled to do a 45-minute telephone interview with David Saito-Chung,= =20 IBD's markets writer, on Wednesday,=20 Nov. 29 at 1:30 p.m.  David said the goal of his story is to not just=20 describe what you have accomplished at Enron, but show how you achieved=20 success.  He is looking for specific examples and anecdotes that illustrate= =20 Enron's vision and innovation. =20 David has submitted the following questions in advance of the interview: What did critics say when Enron proposed to create a natural gas trading=20 market? How did you respond to their opinions? Why did you see an opportuni= ty=20 while others didn=01,t? You debated with people at the FERC on how the natural gas market should be= =20 run. You also lobbied the government to change its rules that regulated the= =20 natural gas industry. Was persistence the biggest key to your success in=20 those matters? Tell me about the planning of EnronOnline. Whose idea was it? How did you= =20 initially respond to it? Why do you think EnronOnline has been so successful? How do you view technology? What role has it played in Enron=01,s success?= =20 Some publications have named Enron as having one of the best-quality=20 management teams of any company. Why?=20 How do you build and keep foster a strong managing team? How many people at= =20 Enron have =01&CEO=018 in their official business titles? Why can you compete with major investment banks on Wall Street to get the= =20 brightest business school graduates? How does your company inspire employees to be creative and innovative? Why was Enron the first to create risk management products for the paper=20 products industry and other industries? As additional background, I've also attached the Leaders & Success feature = on=20 GE's Jeffrey Immelt in today's paper.  I will come to your office at 1:30= =20 tomorrow to place the call. =20 Thank you. Karen About Leaders & Success We uncover what turned ordinary individuals into extraordinary leaders. The= se=20 motivational profiles reveal the techniques, philosophies and determination= =20 that drive successful people to the top. Learn practical management=20 techniques and methods to move you ahead in your career. These are proven= =20 models of success you won't want to miss.? Leaders & Success Tuesday, November 28, 2000 GE's Jeffrey R. Immelt=20 His Focus On The Customer Boosted Him To The Top=20 By Patrick Seitz Investor's Business Daily Jeffrey R. Immelt, the man chosen to succeed the legendary Jack Welch as=20 chief executive of General Electric Co., knows there's just one person=20 keeping him in business: the customer. And that customer is the person Imme= lt=20 goes all-out to please. Immelt, 44, was plucked from the company's fast-growing GE Medical Systems= =20 business, where he had served as president and chief executive since 1997.= =20 The $7 billion unit, based in Waukesha, Wis., is a world leader in medical= =20 diagnostic technology and information systems. Immelt attributes much of his success to his laserlike focus on sales. ""I love working with customers. . . . Sales has really influenced everythin= g=20 I do. It has instilled in me the important traits of operating with a sense= =20 of urgency and listening to people,"" Immelt said. Immelt on Monday was named president and chairman-elect of GE. He will=20 succeed John F. ""Jack"" Welch Jr., GE's chairman and CEO, when Welch retires= =20 at the end of 2001. When Immelt landed at GE Medical Systems in 1997, he quickly showed a knack= =20 for squeezing growth from a unit known for sluggish sales. Last year, its= =20 revenue jumped 23% to $6 billion. Customers credit Immelt with going way beyond sales. When Chicago's=20 Northwestern Memorial Hospital expanded its scanning services last year,=20 Immelt spent hours helping to manage its work flow. ""That's the kind of collaboration that we find unusual,"" Northwestern=20 Memorial CEO Gary Mecklenburg told Business Week. Immelt has proven himself both by turning around troubled GE divisions and= =20 extracting better performance from thriving units. Immelt knows how important it is to set the pace, not follow it. To keep GE= =20 Medical flourishing, he's pushed the unit to expand acquisitions and new=20 product offerings. The division's product line ranges from ultrasound devic= es=20 used in doctors' offices to multimillion-dollar CT and MRI scanners. In his earlier work in GE's Plastics division, Immelt stood out by persuadi= ng=20 hard-boiled carmakers to substitute plastics for metal on some parts. As vice president of consumer service for GE's Appliances division, Immelt= =20 deftly handled the fallout from a recall of refrigerator compressors. To ke= ep=20 workers' morale pumped up during the recall, Immelt would often climb up on= a=20 forklift in GE's Louisville, Ky., plant and pass out words of encouragement= =20 and praise. He took time to speak with employees during such sessions,=20 listening carefully to their ideas and concerns. Immelt believes that open, fast communication with workers is crucial. Not = a=20 table-thumper, he meets with employees =01) sometimes hundreds at a time = =01) to=20 discuss where GE Medical is going. Colleagues say he works at=20 consensus-building, urging others to understand different points of view. After returning from corporate meetings, Immelt distills the latest GE=20 thinking on videotape, and copies are sent to offices around the world. Understanding that seeing someone face to face helps foster stronger=20 relationships, Immelt also travels often to meet employees and customers.= =20 Constant contact keeps a company united, Immelt believes. So he updates the= =20 company's employees once a week via e-mail on the latest developments =01) = new=20 business, lost sales opportunities and other nuggets about company=20 initiatives. E-mail is sent in five languages, and at times up to a dozen,= =20 according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Immelt was one of three GE executives who analysts considered possible=20 successors to Welch. Welch, 65, has been at the helm of the Fairfield,=20 Conn.-based finance, industrial and broadcasting powerhouse for the past tw= o=20 decades.=20 ""Jeff Immelt is a natural leader, and ideally suited to lead GE for many=20 years,"" Welch said. ""He brings a keen strategic intellect, a cutting-edge= =20 technological background, strong leadership characteristics and a unique se= t=20 
Ken -- Continental Airlines magazine is writing a cover story on you for their April issue.  The annual technology/business issue is the magazine's largest and most prestigious.  The article will be both a personality profile and a business overview, with an emphasis on our broadband business.  The writer, Carol Rust, is scheduled to interview you in your office on Thursday, Nov. 30 from 10 a.m. to noon. She has submitted the following questions in advance of the interview: How did you achieve the transformation from a gas pipeline company to a cutting-edge energy powerhouse? How has EnronOnline been developed and what have the benefits been? What aspects of the company (flexibility, for example) allow it to achieve success in so many varied areas? How do you come up with new ideas? Of all the things for an energy company to do, why offer bandwidth to content providers? What are the exact mechanics of the broadband operation? How much of the market does Enron have now, and how much does Enron want? What did start-up of the broadband business involve? What were the costs -- money and time? What do you say to nay-sayers who say Enron will remain only a bit player in this field? What's next? I will bring Carol to your office at 10 a.m. and sit in on the interview to coordinate any follow-up questions. Thank you. 
Attached for your review is the latest press release announcing Rebecca Mark's resignation from the Enron board and an employee memo we would like to send via email to all Enron employees.  If you have any comments or changes, please let me know by noon. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Ken -- You are scheduled to do a 30-minute telephone interview on Thursday at 9:30 a.m. with Heidrick & Struggles, which is publishing a journal for the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos in January 2001.  This publication will cover corporate leadership and human capital issues in the new economy.  They want to talk to you for a chapter on ""Leading a Transformation into the New Economy.""   The interviewer will be Stephen Miles, and he has submitted the following questions in advance of your conversation.  I will come to your office at 9:30 a.m. to place the call. Thank you. Karen 1. Enron over the past decade has become the most vigorous change agent in its industry.  From a leadership perspective, how have you created a culture of change in an industry not known for change? 2. Nortel Networks has clearly made an outstanding transformation into the New Economy, similar to Enron's evolution. In Nortel's case, John Roth bought Bay Networks and infused the Nortel culture with Bays - almost a reverse cultural transformation.  How did you create a New Economy culture where innovation, risk-taking and new ideas are embraced and rewarded? 3. Are there some best practices you can share with other CEOs and Managing Directors regarding leading a change? 4. At best, change is difficult. But being able to change before you have to has only been accomplished successfully by a few companies.  How did you lead a change effort when you were arguably still a very successful utility? 5. Peter Drucker has said than in stable time you need good management but in disruptive times you need leadership.  How have you been able to attract and retain what Fortune magazine has called the best management team? 6. The New Economy is really all about creating a culture of innovation, where employees see opportunity and not barriers. Enron has been masterful at this from gas, to electricity, pulp & paper, and now bandwidth. As the ""keeper of the culture"" how did you establish and maintain such a culture? 7. As Enron moves away from Plant, Property and Equipment towards Intangible Assets, what has changed for you as a leader in the age of intangibles? 8. Can you list the four or five ""must have"" competencies for the 21st Century CEO? What experiences are necessary? 9. Lets talk about going global. You have made very impressive in-roads in India where no other utility has been able to. How did you lead this effort? Are there any best practices you can share with your fellow CEO's who are thinking about India? 10. Lets now move to Europe. Enron is the largest gas and power trader in Europe. Can you discuss your move into Europe? Again are there some 
I am pleased to announce that Vance Meyer joins the corporate public relations team today as director of media relations.  Vance comes to Enron from Connecticut-based The Stanley Works, where he worked for three years as director of communications and public affairs and was responsible for corporate media, community and government relations, employee communications and charitable contributions for the $2.8 billion tool company.  Prior to Stanley, Vance worked for General Electric for 12 years in several positions, both at the company's headquarters and at various field locations.  While at Stanley and GE, Vance developed strong media relations skills, working with key trade and mainstream business and finance publications.  At GE, Vance managed a Business Week cover story on Jack Welch, as well as cover stories in CIO and Chief Executive magazines. Vance has a bachelor's degree in journalism from Ball State University in Indiana.  He and his wife, Theresa, and their 18-month-old son, Sam, are relocating to Houston. 
Ken -- Continental Airlines magazine is doing a cover story on you for their April issue.  The interview is scheduled for Nov. 30.   I've scheduled a photo shoot for you on Dec. 8 in the office, but since they'll need several photos for the article, the photographer has asked if you're willing to have your photo taken in your home, as well.   If not, do you have any suggestions for alternate locations?  They're looking for a natural, comfortable setting. Please let me know.  Thank you. 
Ken --=20 Investor's Business Daily would like to write a profile of you for their=20 ""Leaders & Success"" page.  The daily feature is a 1200-word profile with a= =20 top executive about their keys to success and how they motivate people.   Y= ou=20 are scheduled to do a 45-minute telephone interview with David Saito-Chung,= =20 IBD's markets writer, on Wednesday,=20 Nov. 29 at 1:30 p.m.  David said the goal of his story is to not just=20 describe what you have accomplished at Enron, but show how you achieved=20 success.  He is looking for specific examples and anecdotes that illustrate= =20 Enron's vision and innovation. =20 David has submitted the following questions in advance of the interview: What did critics say when Enron proposed to create a natural gas trading=20 market? How did you respond to their opinions? Why did you see an opportuni= ty=20 while others didn=01,t? You debated with people at the FERC on how the natural gas market should be= =20 run. You also lobbied the government to change its rules that regulated the= =20 natural gas industry. Was persistence the biggest key to your success in=20 those matters? Tell me about the planning of EnronOnline. Whose idea was it? How did you= =20 initially respond to it? Why do you think EnronOnline has been so successful? How do you view technology? What role has it played in Enron=01,s success?= =20 Some publications have named Enron as having one of the best-quality=20 management teams of any company. Why?=20 How do you build and keep foster a strong managing team? How many people at= =20 Enron have =01&CEO=018 in their official business titles? Why can you compete with major investment banks on Wall Street to get the= =20 brightest business school graduates? How does your company inspire employees to be creative and innovative? Why was Enron the first to create risk management products for the paper=20 products industry and other industries? As additional background, I've also attached the Leaders & Success feature = on=20 GE's Jeffrey Immelt in today's paper.  I will come to your office at 1:30= =20 tomorrow to place the call. =20 Thank you. Karen About Leaders & Success We uncover what turned ordinary individuals into extraordinary leaders. The= se=20 motivational profiles reveal the techniques, philosophies and determination= =20 that drive successful people to the top. Learn practical management=20 techniques and methods to move you ahead in your career. These are proven= =20 models of success you won't want to miss.? Leaders & Success Tuesday, November 28, 2000 GE's Jeffrey R. Immelt=20 His Focus On The Customer Boosted Him To The Top=20 By Patrick Seitz Investor's Business Daily Jeffrey R. Immelt, the man chosen to succeed the legendary Jack Welch as=20 chief executive of General Electric Co., knows there's just one person=20 keeping him in business: the customer. And that customer is the person Imme= lt=20 goes all-out to please. Immelt, 44, was plucked from the company's fast-growing GE Medical Systems= =20 business, where he had served as president and chief executive since 1997.= =20 The $7 billion unit, based in Waukesha, Wis., is a world leader in medical= =20 diagnostic technology and information systems. Immelt attributes much of his success to his laserlike focus on sales. ""I love working with customers. . . . Sales has really influenced everythin= g=20 I do. It has instilled in me the important traits of operating with a sense= =20 of urgency and listening to people,"" Immelt said. Immelt on Monday was named president and chairman-elect of GE. He will=20 succeed John F. ""Jack"" Welch Jr., GE's chairman and CEO, when Welch retires= =20 at the end of 2001. When Immelt landed at GE Medical Systems in 1997, he quickly showed a knack= =20 for squeezing growth from a unit known for sluggish sales. Last year, its= =20 revenue jumped 23% to $6 billion. Customers credit Immelt with going way beyond sales. When Chicago's=20 Northwestern Memorial Hospital expanded its scanning services last year,=20 Immelt spent hours helping to manage its work flow. ""That's the kind of collaboration that we find unusual,"" Northwestern=20 Memorial CEO Gary Mecklenburg told Business Week. Immelt has proven himself both by turning around troubled GE divisions and= =20 extracting better performance from thriving units. Immelt knows how important it is to set the pace, not follow it. To keep GE= =20 Medical flourishing, he's pushed the unit to expand acquisitions and new=20 product offerings. The division's product line ranges from ultrasound devic= es=20 used in doctors' offices to multimillion-dollar CT and MRI scanners. In his earlier work in GE's Plastics division, Immelt stood out by persuadi= ng=20 hard-boiled carmakers to substitute plastics for metal on some parts. As vice president of consumer service for GE's Appliances division, Immelt= =20 deftly handled the fallout from a recall of refrigerator compressors. To ke= ep=20 workers' morale pumped up during the recall, Immelt would often climb up on= a=20 forklift in GE's Louisville, Ky., plant and pass out words of encouragement= =20 and praise. He took time to speak with employees during such sessions,=20 listening carefully to their ideas and concerns. Immelt believes that open, fast communication with workers is crucial. Not = a=20 table-thumper, he meets with employees =01) sometimes hundreds at a time = =01) to=20 discuss where GE Medical is going. Colleagues say he works at=20 consensus-building, urging others to understand different points of view. After returning from corporate meetings, Immelt distills the latest GE=20 thinking on videotape, and copies are sent to offices around the world. Understanding that seeing someone face to face helps foster stronger=20 relationships, Immelt also travels often to meet employees and customers.= =20 Constant contact keeps a company united, Immelt believes. So he updates the= =20 company's employees once a week via e-mail on the latest developments =01) = new=20 business, lost sales opportunities and other nuggets about company=20 initiatives. E-mail is sent in five languages, and at times up to a dozen,= =20 according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Immelt was one of three GE executives who analysts considered possible=20 successors to Welch. Welch, 65, has been at the helm of the Fairfield,=20 Conn.-based finance, industrial and broadcasting powerhouse for the past tw= o=20 decades.=20 ""Jeff Immelt is a natural leader, and ideally suited to lead GE for many=20 years,"" Welch said. ""He brings a keen strategic intellect, a cutting-edge= =20 technological background, strong leadership characteristics and a unique se= t=20 
Ken -- Continental Airlines magazine is writing a cover story on you for their April issue.  The annual technology/business issue is the magazine's largest and most prestigious.  The article will be both a personality profile and a business overview, with an emphasis on our broadband business.  The writer, Carol Rust, is scheduled to interview you in your office on Thursday, Nov. 30 from 10 a.m. to noon. She has submitted the following questions in advance of the interview: How did you achieve the transformation from a gas pipeline company to a cutting-edge energy powerhouse? How has EnronOnline been developed and what have the benefits been? What aspects of the company (flexibility, for example) allow it to achieve success in so many varied areas? How do you come up with new ideas? Of all the things for an energy company to do, why offer bandwidth to content providers? What are the exact mechanics of the broadband operation? How much of the market does Enron have now, and how much does Enron want? What did start-up of the broadband business involve? What were the costs -- money and time? What do you say to nay-sayers who say Enron will remain only a bit player in this field? What's next? I will bring Carol to your office at 10 a.m. and sit in on the interview to coordinate any follow-up questions. Thank you. 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Enron announced today that its common stock will now be traded as an Over-the-Counter (OTC) equity security under the symbol ""ENRNQ.""  This follows a decision by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to file an application to delist Enron's common stock, which means that Enron's common stock and related securities are suspended from trading on the NYSE.  Enron is considering whether to appeal the NYSE's decision. 
Please let me know if we can release today.  Thank you. karen x39757 
Attached are the latest communication materials.  We DO NOT have a deal yet, but I am sending these so that you have time to review before holding floor/staff meetings in the event we have an announcement later today.  Please do not forward these materials, as they are not yet final.  If there are any changes in these materials when the deal becomes final, I will resend them.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages, for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- External Q&A, for use with the media and external audiences -- Internal Q&A, for background use in meetings with employees -- Intranet Q&A, posted on the web for employees 
Apologies for the short notice, but we would like to issue the attached press release tonight, so that we have announced Ray's appointment prior to tomorrow's conference call.  If you have any comments or changes, please let me know as soon as possible. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Attached for your information is a memo that we plan to send out to employees worldwide Monday afternoon or Tuesday morning discussing the Policy Committee's cost saving recommendations.  To the extent there are unique aspects of these policies as they apply to your business unit, please follow up with a further communication to your employees.  We will send you a list of frequently asked questions that deal with systems issues. Thank you. Karen 
Thank you again for attending last Thursday's meeting with Ken Lay.  As a follow-up to the meeting, I'm attaching a letter that outlines the five-point solution Ken discussed.  The governor and legislators need to hear from California's business leaders about a comprehensive solution that addresses the short- and long-term problems of California's energy crisis.  Please sign this letter and send it to the following key legislators -- and to any legislators with whom you have a good relationship: Governor Gray Davis Assembly Speaker Robert Hertzberg Senate President Pro Tem John Burton Assembly Speaker Pro Tem Fred Keeley Assembly Republican Leader Dave Cox Senator Debra Bowen Please send me or Ken Lay a copy of the letter, and keep us updated on any feedback you receive from the governor and legislators.  Thank you for your assistance in helping advance a solution to California's energy crisis.  If you have any questions or need additional information, please call me. Sincerely, Karen Denne Vice President Enron Public Relations 713-853-9757 - phone 713-853-6790 - fax 
Enron taps credit line; stock slides 10/27/2001 Associated Press Newswires Copyright 2001. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. HOUSTON (AP) - After Enron Corp. tapped into more than $3 billion in credit in an effort to boost confidence of investors and customers, stock prices dropped. Enron Corp.'s stock price hit its lowest point in more than five years Friday. Shares fell 95 cents on Friday to $15.40, a level not seen since 1995, as analysts continued to muddle through a complicated series of bookkeeping issues revealed after the company's earnings announcement earlier this month. The stock is down more than 50 percent in two weeks, and the company lost almost $14 billion in market value. Late this week the company decided to convert $3 billion in revolving credit it has through various banks into cash. The company put about $1.1 billion in the bank in an effort to reassure business partners and investors of its liquidity and is using the $2.2 billion balance to begin an orderly repurchase of a certain kind of short-term corporate IOU known as commercial paper. ""Nothing spells confidence quite like cash, which is what we want investors to understand,"" said Enron spokesman Mark Palmer of the $1.1 billion banked this week. 
Attached is a draft press release we'd like to issue before the opening of the market Thursday.  Please review and let me know if you have any comments or changes. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Ken -- As you can see from the attached schedule, the level of media interest in Enron's earnings has grown considerably in the past 18 months.  As a result, we have developed a fairly rigorous schedule to provide interviews with the main broadcast, wire and print media. This quarter, we will do the broadcast interviews with CNBC, CNNfn and Bloomberg TV from an office on the 32nd floor trading floor, rather than in the Board room.  We think that this is an optimal location because we want the backdrop to show that you're back in the midst of the action. Given the recent events, you are likely to get questions about security, energy infrastructure and impact of Sept. 11 on Enron.  We have compiled a Q&A/messaging document, which covers these issues and other earnings-related topics.  I will send the Q&A later today. Mark Palmer or I will meet you following the analyst call, and we will go to EB3241 for the broadcast interviews, then come back to your office to place the calls to the wire and print reporters. Also, Vijay Vaitheeswaran of the Economist is in town this week, and he would like to interview you about where Enron is headed under your direction.  He is scheduled to meet with you for 45 minutes at 1 p.m. Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians 
FYI, the only people who knew who we invited to the meeting (but did not attend) were Dick Riordan and Kevin Sharer... Saturday, May 26, 2001 (SF Chronicle) Enron's secret bid to save deregulation/PRIVATE MEETING: Chairman pitches his plan to prominent Californians Christian Berthelsen, Scott Winokur, Chronicle Staff Writers Energy executive Kenneth Lay, head of powerful Enron Corp., quietly courted Arnold Schwarzenegger, Richard Riordan, Michael Milken and other luminaries this week in Beverly Hills to drum up support for his solution to California's energy crisis. His prescription called for more rate increases, an end to state and federal investigations and less rather than more regulation. Lay, a close friend of President Bush and one of his largest campaign contributors, hosted a private 90-minute meeting in a conference room at the Peninsula Hotel in Beverly Hills on Thursday. Among the participants were Milken, the former head of the Drexel Burnham Lambert investment banking firm who pleaded guilty to fraud charges in 1990 and who now runs a think tank based in Santa Monica; movie star Schwarzenegger; and Riordan, the mayor of Los Angeles. Schwarzenegger and Riordan have been courted recently as GOP gubernatorial candidates. One participant, who agreed to speak on the condition he not be identified, said the meeting appeared to be geared toward getting participants to support Lay's vision and then champion it to officials who are trying to solve the state's energy mess. PLAN TO RESCUE DEREGULATION The source said the timing and tone of the meeting suggested Lay is concerned that California will abandon its disastrous experiment with power markets by either re-regulating the system or creating a government authority to provide electricity. Gov. Gray Davis signed legislation last week to create and fund a state power authority that would build, buy and run power plants in California. ""They're trying to rescue deregulation,"" the source said of Enron 
Attached is a draft employee memo, which has been reviewed by both Rebecca and Paula.  Please review, and let me know if you have any comments or changes. Thank you. Karen 
2002 
Attached for your review is the latest press release announcing Rebecca Mark's resignation from the Enron board and an employee memo we would like to send via email to all Enron employees.  If you have any comments or changes, please let me know by noon. Thank you. Karen x39757 
Ken -- You are scheduled to do a 30-minute telephone interview on Thursday at 9:30 a.m. with Heidrick & Struggles, which is publishing a journal for the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos in January 2001.  This publication will cover corporate leadership and human capital issues in the new economy.  They want to talk to you for a chapter on ""Leading a Transformation into the New Economy.""   The interviewer will be Stephen Miles, and he has submitted the following questions in advance of your conversation.  I will come to your office at 9:30 a.m. to place the call. Thank you. Karen 1. Enron over the past decade has become the most vigorous change agent in its industry.  From a leadership perspective, how have you created a culture of change in an industry not known for change? 2. Nortel Networks has clearly made an outstanding transformation into the New Economy, similar to Enron's evolution. In Nortel's case, John Roth bought Bay Networks and infused the Nortel culture with Bays - almost a reverse cultural transformation.  How did you create a New Economy culture where innovation, risk-taking and new ideas are embraced and rewarded? 3. Are there some best practices you can share with other CEOs and Managing Directors regarding leading a change? 4. At best, change is difficult. But being able to change before you have to has only been accomplished successfully by a few companies.  How did you lead a change effort when you were arguably still a very successful utility? 5. Peter Drucker has said than in stable time you need good management but in disruptive times you need leadership.  How have you been able to attract and retain what Fortune magazine has called the best management team? 6. The New Economy is really all about creating a culture of innovation, where employees see opportunity and not barriers. Enron has been masterful at this from gas, to electricity, pulp & paper, and now bandwidth. As the ""keeper of the culture"" how did you establish and maintain such a culture? 7. As Enron moves away from Plant, Property and Equipment towards Intangible Assets, what has changed for you as a leader in the age of intangibles? 8. Can you list the four or five ""must have"" competencies for the 21st Century CEO? What experiences are necessary? 9. Lets talk about going global. You have made very impressive in-roads in India where no other utility has been able to. How did you lead this effort? Are there any best practices you can share with your fellow CEO's who are thinking about India? 10. Lets now move to Europe. Enron is the largest gas and power trader in Europe. Can you discuss your move into Europe? Again are there some 
I am pleased to announce that Vance Meyer joins the corporate public relations team today as director of media relations.  Vance comes to Enron from Connecticut-based The Stanley Works, where he worked for three years as director of communications and public affairs and was responsible for corporate media, community and government relations, employee communications and charitable contributions for the $2.8 billion tool company.  Prior to Stanley, Vance worked for General Electric for 12 years in several positions, both at the company's headquarters and at various field locations.  While at Stanley and GE, Vance developed strong media relations skills, working with key trade and mainstream business and finance publications.  At GE, Vance managed a Business Week cover story on Jack Welch, as well as cover stories in CIO and Chief Executive magazines. Vance has a bachelor's degree in journalism from Ball State University in Indiana.  He and his wife, Theresa, and their 18-month-old son, Sam, are relocating to Houston. 
Ken -- Continental Airlines magazine is doing a cover story on you for their April issue.  The interview is scheduled for Nov. 30.   I've scheduled a photo shoot for you on Dec. 8 in the office, but since they'll need several photos for the article, the photographer has asked if you're willing to have your photo taken in your home, as well.   If not, do you have any suggestions for alternate locations?  They're looking for a natural, comfortable setting. Please let me know.  Thank you. 
Ken --=20 Investor's Business Daily would like to write a profile of you for their=20 ""Leaders & Success"" page.  The daily feature is a 1200-word profile with a= =20 top executive about their keys to success and how they motivate people.   Y= ou=20 are scheduled to do a 45-minute telephone interview with David Saito-Chung,= =20 IBD's markets writer, on Wednesday,=20 Nov. 29 at 1:30 p.m.  David said the goal of his story is to not just=20 describe what you have accomplished at Enron, but show how you achieved=20 success.  He is looking for specific examples and anecdotes that illustrate= =20 Enron's vision and innovation. =20 David has submitted the following questions in advance of the interview: What did critics say when Enron proposed to create a natural gas trading=20 market? How did you respond to their opinions? Why did you see an opportuni= ty=20 while others didn=01,t? You debated with people at the FERC on how the natural gas market should be= =20 run. You also lobbied the government to change its rules that regulated the= =20 natural gas industry. Was persistence the biggest key to your success in=20 those matters? Tell me about the planning of EnronOnline. Whose idea was it? How did you= =20 initially respond to it? Why do you think EnronOnline has been so successful? How do you view technology? What role has it played in Enron=01,s success?= =20 Some publications have named Enron as having one of the best-quality=20 management teams of any company. Why?=20 How do you build and keep foster a strong managing team? How many people at= =20 Enron have =01&CEO=018 in their official business titles? Why can you compete with major investment banks on Wall Street to get the= =20 brightest business school graduates? How does your company inspire employees to be creative and innovative? Why was Enron the first to create risk management products for the paper=20 products industry and other industries? As additional background, I've also attached the Leaders & Success feature = on=20 GE's Jeffrey Immelt in today's paper.  I will come to your office at 1:30= =20 tomorrow to place the call. =20 Thank you. Karen About Leaders & Success We uncover what turned ordinary individuals into extraordinary leaders. The= se=20 motivational profiles reveal the techniques, philosophies and determination= =20 that drive successful people to the top. Learn practical management=20 techniques and methods to move you ahead in your career. These are proven= =20 models of success you won't want to miss.? Leaders & Success Tuesday, November 28, 2000 GE's Jeffrey R. Immelt=20 His Focus On The Customer Boosted Him To The Top=20 By Patrick Seitz Investor's Business Daily Jeffrey R. Immelt, the man chosen to succeed the legendary Jack Welch as=20 chief executive of General Electric Co., knows there's just one person=20 keeping him in business: the customer. And that customer is the person Imme= lt=20 goes all-out to please. Immelt, 44, was plucked from the company's fast-growing GE Medical Systems= =20 business, where he had served as president and chief executive since 1997.= =20 The $7 billion unit, based in Waukesha, Wis., is a world leader in medical= =20 diagnostic technology and information systems. Immelt attributes much of his success to his laserlike focus on sales. ""I love working with customers. . . . Sales has really influenced everythin= g=20 I do. It has instilled in me the important traits of operating with a sense= =20 of urgency and listening to people,"" Immelt said. Immelt on Monday was named president and chairman-elect of GE. He will=20 succeed John F. ""Jack"" Welch Jr., GE's chairman and CEO, when Welch retires= =20 at the end of 2001. When Immelt landed at GE Medical Systems in 1997, he quickly showed a knack= =20 for squeezing growth from a unit known for sluggish sales. Last year, its= =20 revenue jumped 23% to $6 billion. Customers credit Immelt with going way beyond sales. When Chicago's=20 Northwestern Memorial Hospital expanded its scanning services last year,=20 Immelt spent hours helping to manage its work flow. ""That's the kind of collaboration that we find unusual,"" Northwestern=20 Memorial CEO Gary Mecklenburg told Business Week. Immelt has proven himself both by turning around troubled GE divisions and= =20 extracting better performance from thriving units. Immelt knows how important it is to set the pace, not follow it. To keep GE= =20 Medical flourishing, he's pushed the unit to expand acquisitions and new=20 product offerings. The division's product line ranges from ultrasound devic= es=20 used in doctors' offices to multimillion-dollar CT and MRI scanners. In his earlier work in GE's Plastics division, Immelt stood out by persuadi= ng=20 hard-boiled carmakers to substitute plastics for metal on some parts. As vice president of consumer service for GE's Appliances division, Immelt= =20 deftly handled the fallout from a recall of refrigerator compressors. To ke= ep=20 workers' morale pumped up during the recall, Immelt would often climb up on= a=20 forklift in GE's Louisville, Ky., plant and pass out words of encouragement= =20 and praise. He took time to speak with employees during such sessions,=20 listening carefully to their ideas and concerns. Immelt believes that open, fast communication with workers is crucial. Not = a=20 table-thumper, he meets with employees =01) sometimes hundreds at a time = =01) to=20 discuss where GE Medical is going. Colleagues say he works at=20 consensus-building, urging others to understand different points of view. After returning from corporate meetings, Immelt distills the latest GE=20 thinking on videotape, and copies are sent to offices around the world. Understanding that seeing someone face to face helps foster stronger=20 relationships, Immelt also travels often to meet employees and customers.= =20 Constant contact keeps a company united, Immelt believes. So he updates the= =20 company's employees once a week via e-mail on the latest developments =01) = new=20 business, lost sales opportunities and other nuggets about company=20 initiatives. E-mail is sent in five languages, and at times up to a dozen,= =20 according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Immelt was one of three GE executives who analysts considered possible=20 successors to Welch. Welch, 65, has been at the helm of the Fairfield,=20 Conn.-based finance, industrial and broadcasting powerhouse for the past tw= o=20 decades.=20 ""Jeff Immelt is a natural leader, and ideally suited to lead GE for many=20 years,"" Welch said. ""He brings a keen strategic intellect, a cutting-edge= =20 technological background, strong leadership characteristics and a unique se= t=20 
Ken -- Continental Airlines magazine is writing a cover story on you for their April issue.  The annual technology/business issue is the magazine's largest and most prestigious.  The article will be both a personality profile and a business overview, with an emphasis on our broadband business.  The writer, Carol Rust, is scheduled to interview you in your office on Thursday, Nov. 30 from 10 a.m. to noon. She has submitted the following questions in advance of the interview: How did you achieve the transformation from a gas pipeline company to a cutting-edge energy powerhouse? How has EnronOnline been developed and what have the benefits been? What aspects of the company (flexibility, for example) allow it to achieve success in so many varied areas? How do you come up with new ideas? Of all the things for an energy company to do, why offer bandwidth to content providers? What are the exact mechanics of the broadband operation? How much of the market does Enron have now, and how much does Enron want? What did start-up of the broadband business involve? What were the costs -- money and time? What do you say to nay-sayers who say Enron will remain only a bit player in this field? What's next? I will bring Carol to your office at 10 a.m. and sit in on the interview to coordinate any follow-up questions. Thank you. 
Attached for your review and approval are the press release announcing the merger plan with Azurix and a Q&A document.  Both have been approved by Mark Metts and Lance Schuler.  Pending signature of the merger agreement tonight, we plan to release concurrently with Azurix before the market opens tomorrow morning. If you have any comments or changes, please call Mark Palmer at x34738 before 6 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Karen 
Winners And Losers Of 2001 ; It was another tough year for investors. At le= ast the turmoil in the markets flushed away some really bad ideas. Fortune Magazine=20 The Top 10 Business Stories ; Talk about a bad-news pileup. In one short ye= ar, the longest economic expansion in U.S. history screeched to a halt, the= seventh-largest company in the nation self-destructed, and our world chang= ed irrevocably when a few zealots stepped onto some airplanes. What follows= are FORTUNE's picks for the most important business stories of an unforget= tably tumultuous 2001. Fortune Magazine=20 All I Want For Christmas Fortune Magazine=20 The Geeks Who Rule The World ; There's a reason Moody's and S&P have been d= oing so well. Their customers can't say no. Fortune Magazine=20 Why Enron Went Bust ; Start with arrogance. Add greed, deceit, and financia= l chicanery. What do you get? A company that wasn't what it was cracked up = to be. Fortune Magazine=20 Enron Fortune Magazine=20 Will The Economy Get Well Soon? ; The Fed has been slashing rates with a ve= ngeance, but a credit squeeze could really hurt the recovery. Fortune Magazine=20 Enron Fallout: Wide, But Not Deep ; Enron's collapse has hurt big American = banks. But not as much as a default by Argentina would. Fortune Magazine=20 Editor's Desk Fortune Magazine=20 Best & Worst 2001 ; Honest CEOs. Harebrained ad campaigns. Appalling outfit= s. They've all earned a place on our year-end list. Fortune Magazine=20 Power Player; Chuck Watson built Dynegy at blinding speed but was overshado= wed by Enron. Now he's got the spotlight to himself. Forbes Magazine=20 THE FALL OF ENRON AFTERSHOCKS IN EUROPE Enron's collapse will hit many markets BusinessWeek=20 THE FALL OF ENRON How ex-CEO Jeff Skilling's strategy grew so complex that = even his boss couldn't get a handle on it BusinessWeek=20 ENRON: LET US COUNT THE CULPRITS BusinessWeek=20 Digging Into the Deal That Broke Enron; Behind the web of mysterious partne= rships that led to the world's biggest corporate collapse. Follow the Rapto= rs Newsweek=20 FORTUNE Advisor/Investing Winners And Losers Of 2001 ; It was another tough year for investors. At le= ast the turmoil in the markets flushed away some really bad ideas. Lee Clifford 12/24/2001 Fortune Magazine=20 Time Inc.=20 155 (Copyright 2001)=20 For an instant take on how 2001 treated investors, all you had to do was fl= ick on your TV. Gone were the frenetic performance-touting spots of years p= ast. In their place: dour Schwab ads in which founder Charles admonishes a = mock town meeting of gray-clad investors, ""You have to take the ups with th= e downs.""=20 Signs of new stock market sobriety were everywhere this year: CNBC viewersh= ip tumbled, ten rate cuts by Greenspan & Co. still couldn't stave off a rec= ession, and highly paid analysts were not only stripped of celebrity status= but also sued by investors (Mary Meeker) or humbled into accepting buyout = packages (Henry Blodget). By early December the Nasdaq was down 17% for the= year, the Dow had fallen 6%, and the S&P was off by 12%. Then again, ""there are so many scenarios you could have written that would = have been so much worse,"" points out Roy Weitz, editor of FundAlarm.com. In= fact, since the unprecedented four-day market shutdown and subsequent slid= e after the Sept. 11 attacks, the Dow has rebounded 13%. Given the year we'= ve had--what with events like the Enron implosion, the Bass brothers' massi= ve margin call, and the uproar over a giant diaphragm in Denver (read on fo= r an explanation)- -it's entirely possible that the last few weeks of 2001 = will bring even more surprises. Let's hope at least some of them are happy = ones.=20 S&P 500 standout: J.C. Penney led the pack for most of 2001 but late in the= year was eclipsed by Nvidia, which makes graphics chips for Microsoft's Xb= ox, among other things. The company got an extra boost when it inherited En= ron's spot on the S&P 500 and index fund managers raced to buy the stock. G= ain for the year: 225%.=20 S&P 500 laggard: Lending can be a risky business, especially if your niche = is hawking credit cards to people with spotty credit histories just as the = economy heads into a tailspin. Such was the fate of Providian Financial, wh= ich lost a full 95% of its value amid a spectacular run of credit card defa= ults.=20 Best way to cash out: Selling your stake in a company you built is never ea= sy, but if you're Tom Bailey, the company is Janus, and you have a ""look ba= ck"" provision in your contract allowing you to unload your shares at the 20= 00 price, which reaps $603 million--well, it tugs at the heartstrings a lit= tle less.=20 Worst way to cash out: Margin calls are always ugly, but rarely quite as bi= g--or as publicized--as the late-September fiasco in which longtime Disney = shareholders Sid and Lee Bass (and their dad, Perry) were forced to sell 13= 5 million shares for around $2 billion. It gets worse: Their shares fetched= only $15 each in a private deal; Disney stock now trades for $22.=20 Best fund: In a year marked by--at best--middling performances, the small-c= ap Schroder Ultra gained a stellar 62% by keeping lots of cash on hand (aro= und 40%), using put options, and shorting stocks (like a hedge fund). The o= nly drawback? The fund is closed to new investors.=20 Best reason to manage your own money: Fund manager James McCall of the Merr= ill Lynch Focus Twenty. Merrill waged a bitter legal battle to lure the the= n-hot momentum manager from Pilgrim Baxter two years ago. It's no doubt reg= retting that decision now: McCall got his walking papers in November after = the Focus fund, which held tech, telecom, and Enron, lost 70%.=20 Worst reason to manage your own money: You may be a step ahead of McCall, b= ut hanging on to your day job is probably a good idea, judging from the per= formance of so-called market-participation funds. At the IPS iFund, where s= hareholders nominate stock picks on a Website, collective wisdom precipitat= ed a 37% decline for the year. The StockJungle.com Community Intelligence F= und, for its part, was put out of its misery in August after losing about 3= 6%.=20 Most awkward PR flub: When Denver fund company Invesco agreed to pay $120 m= illion over 20 years to slap its name on the Broncos stadium, it was no dou= bt angling for good press. So when a Denver Post columnist wrote that Inves= co's own employees had dubbed it the ""Diaphragm,"" it had to hurt. Invesco t= hreatened to sue but let up when it discovered that some staffers really di= d think the stadium bore a striking likeness to a gigantic birth-control de= vice.=20 Hottest IPO: Let's just say 2001 wasn't exactly an ideal year to take your = company public. September, in fact, had the distinction of being the first = month since 1975 in which there were no IPOs whatsoever. Yet there were a f= ew success stories, including the best performer (from the date the company= went public to present): a Mountain View, Calif., company called Verisity,= which makes software to detect flaws in electronic systems. Since its Marc= h IPO, the stock has doubled.=20 Should've stayed private: Bringing up the rear in the IPO brigade was Seatt= le sandwich maker Briazz: Rattled working people shunned its pricey gourmet= sandwiches, and investors lost their appetite as well- -the stock is down = 88% since the IPO in May.=20 Nastiest boardroom battle: The acrimonious drama had more twists, turns, an= d 1980s-style backbiting than an episode of Dallas, but in the end Computer= Associates founder and chairman Charles Wang triumphed over Texas investor= Sam Wyly (who proposed a rival slate of directors, charging that Computer = Associates had floundered under Wang's stewardship).=20 Biggest boardroom upset: Lone shareholder Guy Adams got so fed up with Lone= Star Steakhouse management that he ran against CEO Jamie Coulter for his b= oard seat. Unbelievably, he won--by a reported 2.3 million votes.=20 Most embarrassing Enron call: There was lots of competition here: bad calls= , late calls, and gutless calls by analysts (not to mention the conference = call in which CEO Jeffrey Skilling labeled one money manager an a--hole), b= ut special distinction goes to Ron Barone of UBS Warburg, who lowered his r= ating on the stock from a strong buy to a hold--on Nov. 28, just days befor= e Enron declared bankruptcy. Uh, thanks.=20 Best makeover: The urge to merge raged this year as fund companies attempte= d to save face by folding hideous specialty funds into slightly less hideou= s tech funds. Strong Internet was merged into the Strong Technology 100 fun= d, and Merrill Lynch Internet Strategies was bled into the Merrill Lynch Gl= obal Technology fund. But proving yet again that it really is what's on the= inside that counts, the Strong fund has so far lost 39%, and the Merrill f= und is down 42%.=20 Greatest career gamble: With a middling investing record on his resume, Jam= es Oberweis, dairy magnate and founder of the eponymous asset-management fi= rm, announced he would vie for a U.S. Senate seat in Illinois. Perhaps in l= ight of the markets' turbulence, anything looks easier than facing the Nasd= aq.=20 Best prediction for 2002: Finally, we wondered what investors could look fo= rward to next year. Fund watchdog Weitz predicts that mutual fund marketing= gurus are already dreaming up a spate of ""new reality"" funds filled with d= efense and biotech stocks. Not the most tasteful proposition, perhaps, but = given this year's exploits, probably not far off the mark. Let's just hope = it doesn't land them in the loser's circle next year.=20 Feedback? investing@fortunemail.com COLOR PHOTO: JOHN MUGGENBORG COLOR PHOTO: ANTHONY SAVIGNANO No Disney magic= for the Basses, who got a margin call and had to sell COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOFE= ST [See caption above] COLOR PHOTO: WALTER P. CALLAHAN [See caption above] = COLOR PHOTO: MARK ASNIN--CORBIS SABA Tom Bailey COLOR PHOTO: ED ANDRIESKI--= AP Does this look like a diaphragm? Invesco employees think so. COLOR PHOTO= COLOR PHOTO: REUTERS--TIMEPIX Charles Wang COLOR PHOTO: YVONNE BRANDWIJK G= uy Adams COLOR PHOTO: SETH PERLMAN--AP James Oberweis=20 ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Features/The Year In Business The Top 10 Business Stories ; Talk about a bad-news pileup. In one short ye= ar, the longest economic expansion in U.S. history screeched to a halt, the= seventh-largest company in the nation self-destructed, and our world chang= ed irrevocably when a few zealots stepped onto some airplanes. What follows= are FORTUNE's picks for the most important business stories of an unforget= tably tumultuous 2001. Alynda Wheat 12/24/2001 Fortune Magazine=20 Time Inc.=20 113 (Copyright 2001)=20 1. 9.11 That the World Trade Center attacks could leave New York City $100 = billion in the red seems oddly beside the point. They destroyed thousands o= f lives and livelihoods, shattered our nation's sense of security, and plun= ged us into war.=20 2. The Recession With the market melting down, consumer confidence evaporat= ing, and joblessness rising, not even Alan Greenspan's ten rate cuts--and a= nother expected this month--could stave off recession. At least you lived t= o see the biggest boom ever. Now wave bye-bye. 3. The Enron Implosion Thanks to the energy trader's dubious bookkeeping, K= en Lay went from running a $101 billion company to presiding over the bigge= st bankruptcy in history.=20 4. California's Energy Crisis As energy became scarce, the state instituted= rolling blackouts and spent $11 billion to bail out PG&E and SoCal Edison.= While conservation stabilized soaring prices, the crisis--plus the Enron c= ollapse--left the deregulation movement in tatters.=20 5. Wall Street Analysts Henry Blodget and Mary Meeker were the poster child= ren for Wall Street hype. But this was the year investors, burned by analys= ts' stock picks, stopped believing and started suing and booing.=20 6. Team Bush No one expected much from the President and his advisors on fo= reign policy. The focus was supposed to be domestic policy, like the tax cu= t. Sept. 11 turned that around. Bush has emerged as a strong war leader, bu= t his legacy could still depend upon reviving the economy.=20 7. Telecom Meltdown If you think this Lucent office looks empty, ask one of= the company's employees about his 401(k). The entire industry suffered stu= pefying losses thanks to bad investments and wishful thinking.=20 8. China Being selected to host the 2008 Summer Olympics wasn't the country= 's only big win. After years of tense negotiation, China gained entry to th= e World Trade Organization.=20 9. Microsoft Why is Bill Gates smiling? Maybe because his Teflon tech firm = slipped a Justice Department noose, shook an avalanche of bad press, launch= ed the XP operating system, and unveiled the coveted Xbox game console.=20 10.Ford Chairman Bill Ford ousted bare-knuckled CEO Jacques Nasser after a = year of nightmarish PR, pricey foreign investments that left the company sc= rounging for cash, and lawsuits that ended the nearly century-old relations= hip between Ford and Firestone. The scion has a tough road ahead. COLOR PHOTO: MIKE KEPKA--SFC/CORBIS SABA California's energy crisis--one of= the top ten business stories of 2001--inspired Rick and Karen Dorantes to = cut their energy use in half by running appliances off car batteries. [T of= C] COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES NACHTWEY--VII ELEVEN COLOR PHOTOS: MAR= TIN SIMON--CORBIS SABA COLOR PHOTO: GREG SMITH--CORBIS SABA B/W PHOTO: MICH= AEL LLEWELLYN COLOR PHOTO: ANNE KATRINE SENSTAD COLOR PHOTO: MICHELE ASSELI= N COLOR PHOTO: J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE--AP COLOR PHOTO: SERGIO FERNANDEZ COLOR = PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIEN-MIN CHUNG--REUTERS-TIMEPIX COLOR PHOTO: JEFF CHR= ISTENSEN--REUTERS-TIMEPIX COLOR PHOTO: JOHN HILLERY--REUTERS-TIMEPIX=20 ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 First; While You Were Out All I Want For Christmas Stanley Bing 12/24/2001 Fortune Magazine=20 Time Inc.=20 55 (Copyright 2001)=20 Dear Santa,=20 I can't believe it's that time of year again. I hope this letter finds you = in the best of health. I think I speak for everybody when I tell you that w= e've been very, very good this time around, so this is going to be a rather= long list. Grab something wet, pull up a Barcalounger, and pay attention. At the outset, let me say I consider it a miracle that this letter reached = you at all. I figure you have security up the wazoo, what with all the wack= os sending stuff through the snail mail. That whole drill has to make your = job a lot tougher. Be patient, Santa, and don't cut corners. Don't get comp= lacent. There's more than one evildoer who would love to take the blush out= of the cheeks of a symbol of Western hedonism like you. But don't worry ab= out this letter, of course! If there's any white powder on the envelope, it= came from one of the freshly baked doughnuts I have waiting on the mantle = for your upcoming visit!=20 Anyhow, this year it's clear that many, many people are a lot more needy th= an I am, so in the spirit of the season I'm gonna ask for their presents fi= rst.=20 I should start, I guess, with the poor folks at Andersen, the accounting an= d consulting firm. Boy, Santa, do those guys need some new calculators! Ple= ase get a whole bunch for them. They approved the books for the fellows ove= r at Enron, whose earnings didn't turn out to really be what they said they= were at first. Then they had to restate them. Was their collective face re= d! I'm sure if the Andersen people had better equipment, they wouldn't have= screwed up like that with Enron, or with all the other corporations they s= eemingly permitted to wank around with their numbers in exchange for hefty = consulting fees.=20 While we're at it, I suppose we can't ignore the senior management that use= d to run Enron either. What a bunch of boneheads! But this is the holiday t= ime of year, Santa, the season of forgiveness and giving, so why not make t= heir executive homes your first stop? They need a lot, Santa. To start with= , they're gonna want, like, thousands of hours of legal time from expensive= firms, so give them that. And why not throw in a couple of files they can = bake into cakes for later on?=20 On your way out of town, forget about toys and games and stuff like that an= d just please leave a ton of money under the tree of every Enron employee, = particularly the fired ones, and of course the older ones who thought they = were going to have something to retire on. And as for the financial planner= s who allowed employees' 401(k)s to hold solely the company's stock, I supp= ose you should bring very special presents for them too...I can't think of = what, though...How about we let the Enron work force figure that one out?= =20 There are so many business executives to think about this year too. Most of= them you could make happy with fractional growth in Ebitda for the quarter= . That would be a huge surprise, and you know how much executives like plea= sant surprises!=20 Bill Gates? You don't need to bring anything for him, Santa. He has just ab= out everything, you know, and what he doesn't have, he can certainly take o= ver and repackage as part of his operating system. But I guess you should t= ry to make sure that there's an Xbox under every American child's tree this= year, and a couple of games too, particularly the one where those buff gir= ls in tiny Spandex outfits throw each other around. Just knowing he was mak= ing so many children happy would bring a seasonal smile to Bill's Microface= .=20 Oh. Make a very special trip to Carly Fiorina too. She's the woman who runs= Hewlett-Packard, you know. She worked so hard this year and had so much ag= gravation, Santa, so...could you please make Walter Hewlett go away? He's t= he son of the founder, and he's being a real party pooper! He thinks that t= he merger is bad for a lot of stupid reasons...like something about how it = will draw the company away from its core competencies in printing and focus= it on the low-margin computer-manufacturing side of the business, but when= you get right down to it, he's simply being a bummer, that's all. Please, = Santa. Bring Carly her merger. She's staked her whole reputation--and her b= onus next year--on the outcome, and, you know, any CEO who is willing to ri= sk compensation on something must want it really, really bad.=20 While you're at it, please bring John Chambers, the head of Cisco, a good s= tock price right away. The poor fellow has six million options riding on it= . Four million of them are underwater, but more recently the company gave h= im two million more at a strike price of $18.50, and they should be worth s= omething, don't you think? If you don't, Mr. Chambers will really feel that= $268,131 he gave up in salary to show he knows that corporations should pa= y for performance and nothing less.=20 Gee, this is getting kind of long, and I haven't even gotten to myself yet!= So, just briefly, bring Alan Greenspan something nice but healthy, Santa--= very, very healthy, no cigars or liquor. Vitamins! Yeah! And let's see...oh= , yes, bring the Internet some genuine advertising revenue, will you? It co= uld really use it. And don't forget to leave the folks over at the New York= Times business section some Prozac. Or Viagra, maybe. Anything to cheer th= em up.=20 For myself, now...well, I guess I have just about everything a man could wa= nt, so I'll just mention a few of the things I could do without. Bring me n= o cutbacks in my stocking, Santa, for me or my friends, and no smallpox, an= d no anthrax, and no particular reasons to travel anywhere by plane, at lea= st for a while. And most of all please do not bring a suitcase with a nucle= ar weapon in it for anybody I know, and even the people I don't. Other than= that, I could always use a new car. Anything will do, as long as the top g= oes down. And a phone even tinier than the one I have, to show I'm getting = more powerful. And hey, keep this global warming going on. It's great!=20 Now get busy, my man! You're gonna need plenty of time before takeoff this = year, you know, to interview all the reindeer twice after conducting extens= ive background checks on all of them, especially Rudolph, whose nose always= looked a little red to me, and to X-ray all those packages, no matter how = small they might be, while making sure nothing has been placed in the bagga= ge compartments underneath your sleigh by the grinches who want to steal a = whole lot more than Christmas. Fly safe, Santa! We need you more than ever = this year!=20 Oh--and while you're over Iraq, if you happen to spot a suspicious factory = or laboratory of any sort, don't forget to pop a nice little present down i= ts chimney, from--and for--all of us.=20 Feliz Navidad, baby!=20 By day, STANLEY BING is a real executive at a real FORTUNE 500 company he'd= rather not name. He can be reached at stanleybing@aol.com. COLOR ILLUSTRATION: MILAN TRENC=20 ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Features/The Credit Watchers The Geeks Who Rule The World ; There's a reason Moody's and S&P have been d= oing so well. Their customers can't say no. Bethany McLean; Reporter Associate Doris Burke 12/24/2001 Fortune Magazine=20 Time Inc.=20 93 (Copyright 2001)=20 On Nov. 28, when Standard & Poor's and then Moody's downgraded Enron's debt= below the all-important status ""investment grade,"" the company's bankruptc= y became a foregone conclusion. The downgrades confirmed that Enron would n= o longer be able to support its trading operations by accessing the capital= markets, and they triggered the repayment of billions of dollars of debt.= =20 But the one-two credit punches pointed not just to a TKO of Enron. They wer= e also a reminder of the immense and seemingly ever- increasing power of th= e agencies themselves. A much-coveted triple-A rating (the highest grade) i= s the grease in an otherwise squeaky engine. It makes every aspect of doing= business easier, from raising money to convincing customers that operation= s are solid. In contrast, an S&P or Moody's downgrade is a fearsome event t= hat can dramatically increase a company's cost of capital, perhaps even des= troy its ability to raise money. As one critic put it decades ago, they ret= 
Top Of The News The Enron Chain Saw Massacre Dan Ackman, Forbes.com, 01.11.02, 8:16 AM ET The Enron scandal is becoming more and more like a horror movie: It's not what's on screen that scares you, it's the unseen monster in the dark. Yesterday, Enron's accountants and the presidential Cabinet officers added to the scare and sent the burgeoning scandal in new directions. 
News; Domestic Interview with General Tommy Franks Aaron Brown, John King, Bill Hemmer, Bob Franken, Sheila MacVicar, Jason Be= llini 01/11/2002 CNN: Special Report With Aaron Brown=20 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House,= Inc.). All Rights Reserved.=20 We said last night that the collapse of Enron had been largely underreporte= d. That has now changed, as you will hear tonight, and it is that story, En= ron that begins our whip around the world. We start at the White House and = our Senior White House Correspondent John King. John, a headline from you, = please.=20 JOHN KING, SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Aaron, because of Enron's poli= tical connections, the nation's top prosecutor, the Attorney General John A= shcroft and his chief of staff, today had to recuse themselves from the gro= wing criminal investigation into the company's bankruptcy. Why? Because Joh= n Ashcroft took a lot of money from Enron and its chief executives.=20 The administration also, for the first time today, acknowledged the Enron C= EO called two cabinet members before the company filed for bankruptcy and a= sked for help. The administration insists it didn't help him and that it di= d nothing wrong. Aaron.=20 BROWN: John, a lot on Enron tonight. We'll be back with you shortly.=20 (COMMERCIAL BREAK)=20 BROWN: Enron exploded today. It's been a while since the energy company, th= e trading company, a Fortune 500 giant went bankrupt, costing investors inc= luding the company's employees billions of dollars.=20 The story has simmered around for a while, overwhelmed by the war, waiting = its time in the way a good story does, and the time has finally come. Last = night, we reported the Justice Department was opening a criminal investigat= ion, and today the case took a political turn as well, a turn that could we= ll be the first real threat to the Bush Administration.=20 Developments to report, lots of them. We go back to the White House and Sen= ior White House Correspondent John King. John, good evening.=20 KING: Good evening to you, Aaron. A complicated story anyway because of the= facts, even more so because of the politics. If you brought together senio= r officials in the Bush Administration and said, everyone with ties to Enro= n raise your hands, a lot of hands would go up.=20 The President knows the CEO quite well. He's an old family friend. So does = the Vice President and his Chief of Staff. The President's top political ad= viser is close to Enron, so is his top economic adviser. Several members of= the cabinet too. The White House insists though, there has been no questio= nable behavior. There are though, a lot of questions.=20 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)=20 KING (voice over): Attorney General John Ashcroft is recusing himself from = the criminal investigation of Enron, as is his Chief of Staff. The reason, = $60,000 in political contributions from Enron and its top executives in Cam= paign 2000, when Ashcroft was running for reelection to the Senate.=20 Another reflection of the political stakes in the Oval Office, the Presiden= t himself announcing two new cabinet level reviews to determine if the gove= rnment needs stronger disclosure laws to protect shareholders and investors= in 401 (k) and other retirement plans.=20 GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I have great concern for th= e stories, for those I read about in the stories who put their life savings= aside and for whatever reason, based upon some rule or regulation, got tra= pped in this awful bankruptcy and have lost life savings.=20 KING: Energy giant, Enron, first gave a public hint of its financial troubl= es last October, and then filed for bankruptcy in early December, a major e= conomic story in any event and a major political story too because Enron an= d its CEO, Ken Lay, have deep connections to the Bush family and in both po= litical parties in Congress.=20 BUSH: I have never discussed with Mr. Lay the financial problems of the com= pany.=20 KING: But Lay did alert top Bush deputies that Enron was in trouble, and as= ked for help well before the December bankruptcy filing. He called Treasury= Secretary Paul O'Neill, and Commerce Secretary Don Evans, in late October = and O'Neill a second time in early November.=20 Sources say Lay wanted help shoring up the company's bond rating. Aides say= Secretaries O'Neill and Evans decided there was nothing the government cou= ld or should do. The White House says they did not pass the news on to the = President or any other senior administration officials.=20 ARI FLEISCHER, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The President is pleased with t= he actions that his cabinet secretaries took. He thinks they acted wisely a= nd properly.=20 Lay is an old Bush family friend, and he and his company a major donor to b= oth political parties. In the 2000 campaign cycle alone, Enron and its exec= utives contributed more than $2.2 million to federal candidates and politic= al committees; $74,000 went to the Bush Campaign; $1.5 million to other Rep= ublican campaigns and committees; and $640,000 to the Democrats.=20 Four Congressional committees are also investigating Enron, and Democrats w= ant more information on the company's contacts with the Bush White House.= =20 (END VIDEOTAPE)=20 KING (on camera): In hindsight, and there is always hindsight it seems in s= uch cases, top Bush Administration officials say yes, they wish word of tho= se contacts between Ken Lay, the Enron CEO, and Bush cabinet secretaries ca= me out sooner, but they say in the end, any investigation will show this, t= hat a top Bush fundraiser asked for help and was told no, and that this Pre= sident now is showing no hesitancy at all in investigating a man who's not = only a top political supporter, but a long-time family friend. Aaron.=20 BROWN: You could almost hear Democrats smacking their lips a little bit on = this one. Was the White House, in the briefings today and around the buildi= ng, defensive about this or did they seem, people seem comfortable that the= y're OK?=20 KING: Quite defensive about it, Aaron. Some phone calls after the White Hou= se briefing by officials saying, why so many questions about this? This is = an administration of unquestioned integrity. Why do you want to know all th= ese things?=20 But they also understand now, many Democrats in the Congress saw the invest= igations of the Clinton Administration, subpoenas for documents in cases th= at the Clintons thought were way out of bounds, no questions should be aske= d. The Democrats will ask questions about this. So will reporters.=20 The Bush Administration I think got the message today that they have to be = quicker and more forthcoming in releasing any, any details at all of consul= tations or conversations with this company. Again, they say in the end, the= y will be proven that the President did nothing wrong, and that in fact, hi= s two cabinet secretaries, one Don Evans a very close friend of Ken Lay, sa= id no when this man asked for help.=20 BROWN: And just one other quick thing, the decision to have a White House -= - are these White House investigations into Enron, or White House discussio= ns about disclosure laws dealing with investments and investors generally?= =20 KING: There are a number of investigations, so it gets confusing. The Justi= ce Department, even though the Attorney General and the U.S. Attorney and m= ost of his staff in Houston, have recused themselves because of political r= elationships or other relationships. The Justice Department is having a cri= minal investigation.=20 The Labor Department oversees pensions. It has a separate investigation int= o the pension programs. Now there will be two cabinet level taskforces head= ed by the Treasury Department, that involve other departments including the= Securities and Exchange Commission, to see if the government did something= wrong here, if you will, if there should be stronger rules that require an= Enron, when its finances are going south, to tell its shareholders and esp= ecially to tell its employees who have so much stock in those 401 (k) plans= . All the Enron executives who knew about this sold their stock. The employ= ees lost their life savings. The President wants to know if the government = needs to make sure that doesn't happen again.=20 BROWN: John, the old wire service reported that you are -- you probably wan= t to chase the fire that's going on somewhere in D.C.=20 KING: We get those out here.=20 BROWN: Yes, thank you for your work tonight. Senior White House Corresponde= nt John King. We said that the Enron collapse is both a political story and= a business story. It's a complicated story to be sure. Tonight, we're join= ed by someone who can help us understand both the business and the politics= of this. Jim Glassman writes a weekly Washington Post investment column. H= e's also a Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He joins us tonight= from New York. Jim, good evening.=20 JAMES GLASSMAN, HOST, TECHCENTRALSTATION.COM: Good evening, Aaron.=20 BROWN: How could so many -- I mean if you looked at all of the mutual funds= and all the investment houses that recommended Enron, the stock price shot= way up. It looked like a terrific company. How could so many smart people = have been so dumb?=20 GLASSMAN: They didn't just recommend it, they owned it. I mean companies li= ke Janus, Fidelity. There are a lot of analysts that have conflicts of inte= rest, but many of them, who did not, really praised this company to the sky= . Fortune named it six years in a row, the most innovative company in Ameri= ca.=20 Basically, what was going on was that Enron was deceiving investors, deceiv= ing analysts, overstating the profits it was making, hiding some of the loa= ns that it had taken out, and as soon as this was found out, the company ba= sically got capital punishment, which in my opinion it deserved. And I thin= k it's a good lesson to other companies not to deceive investors.=20 Now, the question of whether it did something illegal or not, is another ma= tter. Just the fact that it was very clearly trying to say that it was in m= uch better shape than it was. Unfortunately, a lot of little people got hur= t.=20 BROWN: I want to talk about that, but are you telling me that a company can= mislead investors, mislead the public about how much money it's actually m= aking or how much debt it actually has, and that is not in and of itself a = crime?=20 GLASSMAN: Well, what Enron was doing specifically about the debt was, it wa= s reporting that it had $14 billion in debt. It really had about three time= s that much, and the other debt was pushed off onto other related entities,= and it was very, very difficult for any analyst or the public to find out = about it.=20 Now, it's very difficult to pass enough accounting rules to take care of ev= ery shenanigan that a company's going to come up with. What you need is a m= arket and investors who will crack down really, really hard on companies th= at are being deceptive, if not dishonest, and that's what's happened in thi= s case. But yes, it's not hard to hide things. It's not hard at all to hide= things.=20 BROWN: That's comforting to know for those of us who have money in the mark= et.=20 GLASSMAN: But you know, Aaron, really the way to prevent yourself from gett= ing burned is by being diversified. Things are going to happen like Enron, = and there have been other cases. There are not that many of them, but there= are other cases. And if you have a huge chunk of your retirement savings i= n one company, this kind of thing can happen, a company that looks good in = all of its aspects and bang, it turns out that it's not on the level.=20 BROWN: But that's exactly what happened to the employees, that their 401 (k= ) money --=20 GLASSMAN: Yes. Yes.=20 BROWN: -- was going into the company and worse, they were not allowed to se= ll it.=20 GLASSMAN: Yes, and I think that's a much more serious problem, and that's w= hat some of the policymakers in Washington are looking into, and I think th= ere's a lesson for your viewers. You know, most companies make it easy for = you, as an employee, to buy corporate stock and the problem that you get in= to is that if you lose your job, not only have you lost your everyday livel= ihood, but you also may have lost a big chunk of your retirement savings if= your company goes out of business, as Enron did.=20 The lock-in, the fact that employees could not sell their stock for a certa= in period, was not good, and the fact that apparently executives had access= to information that employees did not was also not good.=20 BROWN: Jim, next time, and I expect there's going to be one, we need to tal= k about the politics of this. Thanks for joining us tonight.=20 GLASSMAN: Love to do that. Thank you, Aaron.=20 BROWN: Thank you, sir.=20 GLASSMAN: OK.=20 BROWN: Jim Glassman in New York. When we return, gunfire at the Kandahar Ai= rport and more. NEWSNIGHT from Atlanta continues in a moment. .............= ...........................................................................= .............................................=20 USA: Enron's Lay called Greenspan in October. 01/11/2002 Reuters English News Service=20 (C) Reuters Limited 2002.=20 WASHINGTON, Jan 11 (Reuters) - Enron Corp.'s Chairman Kenneth Lay telephone= d Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on Oct. 26, a Fed spokesman confi= rmed on Friday.=20 The spokesman would not say what was discussed during the conversation but = he did say that Greenspan did not follow up the call with any action. ""He did nothing in response to the call. It would have been inappropriate,""= the spokesman said.=20 The White House has said Lay called U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill an= d Commerce Secretary Don Evans in the autumn. The White House said the two = officials opted to do nothing about their calls.=20 The Justice Department on Wednesday announced it had opened a criminal inve= stigation into the energy trading company, whose December bankruptcy threw = thousands out of work, devastated investors and wiped out the pension plans= of many employees when its stock price plunged. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Trading of Enron shares halted; judge delays announcement on auction proces= s By ALAN CLENDENNING AP Business Writer 01/11/2002 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 NEW YORK (AP) - Beleaguered Enron Corp. planned to select one of two suitor= s to buy its wholesale energy trading operation in an auction expected to e= nd late Friday morning, a source familiar with the situation said.=20 The auction was being held in private and the selection of a buyer was expe= cted to be announced at a bankruptcy court hearing that was originally sche= duled for 10 a.m., but was delayed until noon. Trading in Enron shares was delayed Friday morning on the New York Stock Ex= change as negotiations for a sale continued pending an anticipated announce= ment.=20 Enron said late Thursday that negotiations for a sale were continuing throu= gh the night.=20 The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said early Friday that the= talks were continuing and the field had been narrowed to two, but declined= to name the suitors. Investment banks that reportedly have an interest in = buying into Enron include Citigroup Inc. and UBS Warburg.=20 In a related matter, Judge Arthur Gonzalez said he expected to rule Friday = on a request to transfer the bankruptcy case to Houston.=20 Gonzalez will have the final word Friday on any sale that takes place as a = result of the auction. More than a dozen Enron creditors have filed objecti= ons to the sale, essentially because they want a better explanation of how = the proceeds will be divvied up.=20 Dissatisfied creditors will have 10 days to appeal Gonzalez's ruling.=20 Before its collapse late last year, Enron was the world's largest energy me= rchant, accounting for roughly 25 percent of all trades in a market it help= ed pioneer. Enron differed from competitors in its penchant for complex bet= s on everything under the sun - advertising space, broadband, paper, the we= ather and more than 1,000 other products. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Widening probe of Texas-based Enron could dog Bush as Whitewater plagued Cl= inton By TOM RAUM Associated Press Writer 01/11/2002 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 WASHINGTON (AP) - The expanding investigation into the collapse of Enron Co= rp. and the company's close ties to the Bush administration could quickly t= urn into a consuming political liability for President George W. Bush in sp= ite of his currently high approval ratings. And Democrats are pressing hard= for just that.=20 At this point, no one is alleging wrongdoing by Bush or top members of his = administration in the bankruptcy of the Houston-based energy trading compan= y, a failure that cost thousands of jobs and ravaged the retirement savings= of many employees. But such investigations tend to take on a life of their own. And Democrats,= sensing a congressional election-year opportunity, are working hard to tur= n up the heat.=20 Some Democrats are likening the probe to the Whitewater and campaign fund-r= aising investigations that plagued former President Bill Clinton.=20 ""The reason this is so potentially devastating to Bush is that it brings to= life in very real terms the notion that when push comes to shove, he's for= the big business special interests and not for the little guy,"" said forme= r Clinton press secretary Joe Lockhart.=20 The controversy deepened on Thursday with the disclosure by the White House= that Enron Chairman Kenneth L. Lay, a longtime friend of the president, ca= lled two of Bush's Cabinet officers - Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and C= ommerce Secretary Don Evans - before the company filed for bankruptcy late = last year.=20 The disclosure came a day after the Justice Department announced it was ope= ning a criminal investigation of the energy company's collapse, including w= hether it defrauded investors by deliberately concealing information about = its finances.=20 Attorney General John Ashcroft, who received campaign contributions from En= ron executives during his failed 2000 senatorial bid, stepped aside from th= e investigation.=20 The collapse, the largest corporate bankruptcy ever, is also being probed b= y the Labor Department and by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which= is looking into the company's destruction of possibly key financial docume= nts; and by five congressional committees.=20 Sen. Joseph Lieberman, leading one of those inquiries, is promising ""a sear= ch for the truth, not a witch hunt.""=20 But some Republicans - including White House spokesman Ari Fleischer - used= just that term, ""witch hunt,"" on Thursday in describing the widening inves= tigation.=20 ""There's not even smoke here, let alone a fire,"" said Charles Black, a vete= ran Republican consultant.=20 ""They can keep it going in terms of probing Enron, looking into what happen= ed to those people who lost their pensions, what happened to the accounting= . All those are legitimate issues,"" said Black. ""But there's no evidence th= at any elected officials did anything for Enron.""=20 Bush, a former Texas oilman himself, on Thursday told reporters, ""I have ne= ver discussed with Mr. Lay the financial problems of the company."" And Flei= scher said that no one in the administration offered to intervene on Enron'= s behalf.=20 ""This is hardly going to be a scandal that brings down President Bush, but = it will be a nagging problem for the Bush administration for some time to c= ome,"" said Larry Sabato, a University of Virginia political scientist.=20 But Sabato said it has all the ingredients to become all-consuming ""because= the Bush administration is so laden with corporate types and people with t= ies to the energy industry. It's understandable to the American people. It'= s the big boys versus the little guys who got hurt.""=20 ""These things can be an enormous distraction. But by the end of the Clinton= administration, we learned that the best thing to do is assign a team to d= isclose everything, and to keep everyone else out of it,"" said Paul Begala,= a former Clinton political adviser.=20 Lanny Davis, who was special counsel to Clinton from 1996 to 1998, urged De= mocrats to not take the same low road he claims Republicans took in pursuin= g the Whitewater and related inquiries.=20 He said so far he sees nothing in the Enron case to link Bush administratio= n officials to the collapse other than innuendo. ""Let's go after the seriou= s stuff,"" including why Enron employees were prevented from unloading their= Enron stock in their company-managed retirement plans as the share prices = plunged from over dlrs 80 to under dlrs 1, Davis said.=20 ---=20 EDITOR'S NOTE - Tom Raum has covered national and international affairs for= The Associated Press since 1973. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Judge To Announce Enron Change Of Venue Motion Later Fri By Kathy Chu 01/11/2002 Dow Jones News Service=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A federal bankruptcy judge here delayed a much-await= ed hearing on Enron Corp.'s (ENE) motion to sell some of its energy-trading= assets until noon Friday - signaling that the company may still be working= to cement a last-minute deal with bidders. The hearing, before Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez in the bankruptcy court of the= Southern District of New York, was originally scheduled for 10 a.m. EST.= =20 The judge said he plans later in the day to decide upon a motion by some of= Enron's creditors to transfer the bankruptcy case to Houston, where the co= mpany is headquartered.=20 -By Kathy Chu; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5394 ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 USA: Enron slated to decide today on trading unit bidder. 01/11/2002 Reuters English News Service=20 (C) Reuters Limited 2002.=20 NEW YORK, Jan 11 (Reuters) - Enron Corp. said it aims to make a decision by= 11:00 a.m. EST (1600 GMT) on which company was the successful bidder for i= ts trading operations.=20 Martin Bienenstock, an Enron attorney, said Enron is still choosing between= two bidders to take control of Enron's trading operations. He didn't name = the companies. A decision is expected to be presented for approval to U.S. = Bankruptcy Court Judge Arthur Gonzalez at a morning hearing in New York, he= said. Citigroup and UBS Warburg have been in the running to buy up to 51 percent = of Enron's energy trading unit, which was put up for auction this week afte= r the Houston-based energy trader declared bankruptcy Dec. 2. London based = oil company BP said it was also interested in some parts of the unit.=20 ""I suspect we will have a decision by 11:00 a.m., but the auction is contin= uing,"" said Bienenstock in an interview. Negotiators worked late into the n= ight on Thursday to haggle the best possible offer for the trading operatio= ns, Enron said. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 USA: Enron shares halted for news pending. 01/11/2002 Reuters English News Service=20 (C) Reuters Limited 2002.=20 NEW YORK, Jan 11 (Reuters) - Trading in shares of troubled energy giant Enr= on Corp. was halted early on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange and over= -the-counter.=20 Enron stock was halted for news pending at 67 cents per share on the NYSE a= s well as over the counter. Enron, once the dominant energy trader in North America, declared bankruptc= y after admissions of murky dealings in early December, which all but close= d down trading operations.=20 In recent developments, Arthur Andersen, Enron's accounting firm, has said = it destroyed papers relating to Enron's finances.=20 Enron's chairman, Ken Lay, also was said to have approached two top Bush ad= ministration officials before filing for bankruptcy. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron Fall Renews Interest In Electricity Clearinghouse By Kristen McNamara 01/11/2002 Dow Jones Energy Service=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Energy companies' increased concern about exposure t= o their trading partners following the meltdown of former energy giant Enro= n Corp. (ENE) has renewed interest in the development of clearinghouses for= the North American electricity markets. It's long been thought that the continent's power markets could benefit fro= m a formal clearing function, in which a central institution extends financ= ial guarantees on trades. Impediments that frustrated past efforts remain, = but Enron's rapid collapse and the tighter credit standards faced by the re= st of the industry have given clearinghouse backers new ammunition.=20 ""The idea was already in people's heads that it was something good to have,= "" said Jim Walker, senior analyst at Forrester Research Inc., a technology = research firm in Cambridge, Mass. ""The Enron situation made people think we= need to get it faster.""=20 Enron, formerly the largest wholesale trader of electricity and natural gas= , filed for bankruptcy protection Dec. 2. The former titan's fall stunned t= he industry and led to increased scrutiny of power companies' credit by rat= ings agencies and trading partners.=20 The U.S. power markets - which Forrester Research estimates traded $446 bil= lion worth of wholesale electricity in 2001 - lack a central exchange. Most= power is traded over the counter, with companies contacting each other dir= ectly and left on the hook if their counterparty defaults.=20 A clearinghouse would protect against counterparty default and reduce the a= mount of collateral companies must post to back their trades, analysts said= . Under such a system, the clearinghouse sets margin requirements and acts = as counterparty to every trade. It collects fees and in return steps in to = cover defaults.=20 A number of energy companies, including Sempra Energy (SRE), Williams Cos. = (WMB), Mirant Corp. (MIR) and Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) said they welco= me the idea.=20 ""We certainly support that idea and think it would be beneficial and would = go a long way toward helping to manage the credit risk of the counterpartie= s,"" Sempra spokesman Doug Kline said.=20 Clearing For Takeoff=20 Anticipating increased demand for insulation against trading risk, several = organizations plan to roll out clearing services for electricity markets th= is year.=20 The New York Mercantile Exchange, the world's largest energy marketplace, h= opes to offer clearing services to power traders sometime in 2002, spokeswo= man Nachamah Jacobovits said. Nymex began extending clearing services to th= e over-the-counter markets for natural gas products in November.=20 ""We have accelerated because of the Enron problems,"" Jacobovits said.=20 IntercontinentalExchange, a fast-growing Internet-based marketplace backed = by a number of leading energy companies and banks, is also exploring the po= ssibility of expanding its clearing function to include electricity, Senior= Vice President David Goone said.=20 ""There's tremendous demand to start coming up with a clearing solution for = the electricity marketplace,"" Goone said. ""Clearing would allow more partic= ipants to trade.""=20 Because the exchange is still hammering out the details, Goone wouldn't say= which electricity products might be covered or when clearing services woul= d be in place.=20 ICE, which last year bought London's International Petroleum Exchange, the = world's second-largest energy futures exchange, has an agreement with the L= ondon Clearing House to provide clearing services for natural gas and crude= oil trades done on ICE beginning in the first quarter of 2002.=20 A third company called EnergyClear, based in Houston, plans to launch a cle= aringhouse for electricity and natural gas in the next three to six months,= according to Jimmy Wright, senior vice president of business development.= =20 Energy companies will own and govern the clearinghouse itself. The Bank of = New York (BK) and brokers Prebon Yamane and Amerex own a unit that will ope= rate the clearinghouse.=20 EnergyClear has the technology and regulatory approval to clear trades, but= must get its membership and governing rules in place before it can begin o= perating, Wright said. The effort was stalled as energy companies shifted t= heir attention to sorting out their exposure to Enron, Wright said.=20 ""We lost probably weeks or a month, if not more, of productive time,"" he sa= id.=20 The Hard Part=20 Despite the support, analysts said it's difficult to estimate how much busi= ness a clearinghouse could actually do. Developing a clearing function for = electricity will be more complicated than for other commodities because of = the volatility of power prices and the Balkanized nature of the electricity= markets - with rules, products and liquidity varying from region to region= , energy experts said.=20 Nymex tried and failed to create a market for electricity futures - standar= d products traded on a regulated exchange with clearing and settlement serv= ices. Electricity futures failed to catch on with energy companies as a ris= k-management tool, in part because there isn't a national benchmark to use = as reference point.=20 ""As liquidity develops in highly traded benchmark products, they will want = to have a clearinghouse for those products,"" Walker said.=20 Thus far, companies have been reluctant to pay for clearing services in the= electricity markets, said Ken Nichols, president of NexClear Inc. NexClear= spent two years trying to develop an electricity-market clearinghouse, but= gave up last summer when it couldn't secure enough money to start up.=20 ""The willingness to pay has not been there,"" Nichols said. ""How many more e= xamples does the industry need to realize the cost of mitigating credit ris= k?""=20 A standard set of rules governing the trading operations of each region mig= ht be necessary before a clearinghouse could begin operating, said Joseph O= ates, vice president for energy management, at Consolidated Edison Co.=20 Federal energy regulators are pushing utilities and grid operators to devel= op uniform regional markets with standard rules. It's not clear how quickly= these could be up and running. But the independent power-grid managers aro= und the country generally offer clearing and settlement services in the mar= kets they operate, and those could be expanded as the so-called independent= system operators and regional transmission organizations grow.=20 ""It is these ISOs, these RTOs that are right in the middle of these markets= and probably need to take on the function of not just being the traffic co= p in these markets but also the referee and auctioneer that makes these mar= kets work,"" Larry Makovich, senior director for electric power research at = the Cambridge Energy Research Associates said.=20 -By Kristen McNamara, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2061; kristen.mcnamara@d= owjones.com=20 (Jon Kamp in Chicago contributed to this article.) ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 WHITE HOUSE WATCH: Enron Story Heats Up At White House 01/11/2002 Dow Jones International News=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 (This article was originally published Thursday)=20 By Alex Keto=20 A Dow Jones Newswires Analysis=20 WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- The long-simmering story over the collapse of Enro= n (ENE) and its political contributions to President George W. Bush heated = up considerably Thursday with the revelation that Enron Chairman Kenneth La= y pleaded for help from the administration while his company was going down= in flames. Administration officials turned Lay down, but the news brings the issues of= political contributions and political favors into uncomfortably close prox= imity.=20 For his part, Bush said he was out of the loop.=20 ""I have never discussed with Mr. Lay the financial problems of the company.= The last time that I saw Mr. Lay was at my mother's fund-raising event for= literacy in Houston. That would have been last spring,"" Bush said.=20 Bush went on to say he wants to see a full investigation into Enron's bankr= uptcy, the largest in U.S. history.=20 ""What anybody's going to find out is that this administration will fully in= vestigate issues such as the Enron bankruptcy, to make sure we can learn fr= om the past and make sure workers are protected,"" Bush said.=20 Nevertheless, the White House appeared to be buffeted by fast-moving events= with White House spokesman Ari Fleischer denying at midday there was any c= onflict of interest in having Attorney General John Ashcroft, who received = political contributions from Enron as a Senate candidate, oversee a crimina= l probe of the company's bankruptcy. Less then two hours later, Ashcroft an= d a top aide recused themselves from the investigation.=20 Shortly after the Ashcroft announcement, Arthur Andersen LLP, the company t= hat served as Enron's auditors, announced that a ""significant"" number of th= e company's documents and records had been destroyed. Both federal and cong= ressional investigators have been seeking the documents.=20 Fleischer said that during the autumn Lay called Treasury Secretary Paul O'= Neill to warn him that Enron was on the verge of collapse, and Lay said the= bankruptcy of his company could be as destabilizing as the implosion of th= e Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund in the late 1990s.=20 However, upon investigation, the Treasury Department rejected Lay's argumen= ts.=20 Later, Lay called Commerce Secretary Don Evans to say ""he (Lay) was having = problems with his bond rating and he was worried about its impact on the en= ergy sector.""=20 Evans then called O'Neill but ""they both agreed no action should be taken t= o intervene with their bond holders,"" Fleischer said.=20 Even before the latest revelations, the White House had confirmed Vice Pres= ident Dick Cheney or his aides met with Enron officials six times last year= to discuss energy issues while the White House was drawing up its energy p= lan .=20 However, Fleischer said the fact that Lay and others were talking to top of= ficials isn't in and of itself a crime.=20 ""I want to remind you that communication is not a wrongdoing. What took pla= ce here was, they received phone calls and took no action. The charge has b= een, did the government take any action? And the answer from these two offi= cials is no,"" Fleischer said.=20 ""I think it should surprise no one that people in the administration receiv= e phone calls from people who are either in business or at unions. It happe= ns everyday,"" Fleischer said.=20 However, some of Fleischer's assertions were, to be blunt, surprising.=20 To begin with, Fleischer said Thursday morning was the first time that O'Ne= ill and Evans mentioned to Bush they had been in contact with Lay in the we= eks just ahead of the company's bankruptcy.=20 In addition, Fleischer said no one in the administration briefed Bush about= Enron's woes and he was hard pressed to say how the president learned the = company had gone belly up late last year.=20 ""He learned last fall. And I couldn't tell you if he learned as a result of= the media accounts when everybody wrote that Enron had gone bankrupt or th= rough any other mechanism. He learned last fall,"" Bush said.=20 However, this explanation appeared to be rather thin considering that Bush = was fully informed and deeply involved in the financial bailout of the nati= on's airlines at the same time in part because thousands of jobs were at ri= sk. Enron employed 20,000 workers.=20 Asked if, in hindsight, the president wished he had been better informed of= the developments at Enron and among his top officials, Fleischer said, ""No= .""=20 Adding to the White House's discomfort is the fact that Democrats on Capito= l Hill are gearing up for hearings on Enron. Fleischer warned them against = going too far.=20 ""It's appropriate to take a look into what led to the bankruptcy of Enron a= nd whether or not anything was done wrong in the process of Enron going ban= krupt. But if that's a politically charged, a politically motivated effort,= then I think the American people are going to say that this is just anothe= r fishing expedition, another endless investigation, the type that they sou= red on over the last many years,"" Fleischer said.=20 Bush Warns Iran Not To Shelter Fleeing Al-Qaida=20 Following reports that Iran may be sheltering small numbers of fleeing al-Q= aida or Taliban fighters and trying to control Afghanistan's western provin= ces, Bush bluntly warned Tehran it will be held accountable for any moves t= o terrorism or terrorists.=20 ""Any nation that thwarts our ability to rout terror out where it exists wil= l be held to account one way or the other,"" Bush said.=20 ""We had some positive signals early - early in this war from - from the Ira= nians. We would hope that they would continue to be a positive force in hel= ping us bring people to justice. We would hope, for example, they wouldn't = allow al-Qaida murderers to hide in their country. We would hope that if th= at be the case, if someone tries to flee into Iran, that they would hand th= em over to us,"" Bush added,=20 Bush also told Tehran to keep its hands off of Afghanistan's fragile govern= ment and hinted the U.S. response could be sharp.=20 ""If they, in any way, shape or form, try to destabilize the government, the= coalition will be - will deal with them in, you know, in diplomatic ways, = initially,"" Bush said.=20 For what its worth, Iran denied it was either undercutting the Kabul govern= ment or hiding terrorists.=20 ""It has been our policy not to allow terrorist groups such as al-Qaida in I= ran,"" Vice President Mohammad Ali Abtahi told The Associated Press.=20 The U.S. has long considered Iran a major backer of international terrorism= .=20 Certainly, Abtahi's comments didn't sway Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfe= ld.=20 ""We know that (Afghanistan-Iran) has a porous border and we know people hav= e moved back and forth throughout history. And we also know they've been mo= ving back and forth in recent history,"" Rumsfeld said.=20 -By Alex Keto, Dow Jones Newswires; 202-862-9256; Alex.Keto@Dowjones.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 POINT OF VIEW: A New Champion For Disclosure: Bush 01/11/2002 Dow Jones News Service=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 (This article was originally published Thursday.)=20 By Neal Lipschutz=20 A Dow Jones Newswires Column=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Corporate disclosure found a high-profile champion T= hursday: the president of the United States. It's not often that the chief executive of the world's most powerful nation= concerns himself with issues such as what public companies should have to = tell investors. That's what cabinet officers and federal agency heads are f= or.=20 But President George W. Bush was provoked Thursday to announce the creation= of a high-level working group to study disclosure rules to see if they nee= d to be improved.=20 The reason for this comes down to one word: Enron.=20 In light of the Chapter 11 filing by former high-flying Enron Corp., Bush s= aid Thursday that he was forming a working group consisting of representati= ves of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commi= ssion and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to review disclosure rul= es, Dow Jones Newswires reported.=20 Many of Enron's woes stemmed from lightly reported off-balance-sheet transa= ctions. Now, it's unlikely that the SEC needs the help of all these other agencies=20 to get the job done. It embarked, pre-Enron, on a broad effort to improve and make ""current"" corporate disclosure of material developments. This might be a case of too many cooks.=20 But it still has to be counted as a silver lining of the Enron mess that a = better disclosure regime will now get the crisis-induced impetus often need= ed to create real change.=20 Assuming this working group brings back a plan that really will make compan= ies disclose more of their pertinent financials in a timely and understanda= ble way, Bush will have no choice but to back it.=20 After all, he formed the working group. And it's in his political interest,= given his and the administration's relationship with Enron's leaders, to b= ack some regulatory lessons from the company's downfall and impose a more t= ransparent regimen of accounting.=20 For its part, the SEC, under Chairman Harvey L. Pitt, should tell its colle= agues at the other agencies joining the working group that it already has a= plan. The SEC then needs to flesh it out in an appropriate way and win the= backing of the other agencies.=20 Enron's failure is an opportunity to overcome the business-as-usual objecti= ons that are bound to rise from a proposal that would significantly alter a= nd improve the way companies report important developments to investors.=20 Notwithstanding the bureaucratic drag of a working group, the support of a = popular president for such a usually obscure effort has got to be a big plu= s in getting something done.=20 Neal Lipschutz is senior editor, Americas, for Dow Jones Newswires.=20 -By Neal Lipschutz, Dow Jones Newswires, 201 938 5152=20 neal.lipschutz@dowjones.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron Confirms CEO Lay Made Calls To Top Govt Officials By Christina Cheddar 01/11/2002 Dow Jones News Service=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES=20 (This report was originally published Thursday.)=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Enron Corp. (ENE) Thursday confirmed its chairman an= d chief executive, Kenneth Lay, contacted top Bush administration officials= to warn that bankruptcy was a possibility for the Houston energy trader. Earlier Thursday, White House officials said Lay contacted Treasury Secreta= ry Paul O'Neill and Commerce Secretary Don Evans prior to the company's ban= kruptcy filing in early December.=20 ""Lay made phone calls to tell senior government officials about the situati= on at Enron,"" an Enron spokesman said. ""He told them that we were working t= o avoid bankruptcy, but it couldn't be ruled out. He didn't ask for anythin= g. He was giving information.""=20 According to the spokesman, Lay thought the officials needed to know of the= looming threat of bankruptcy because Enron was one of the nation's leading= companies and was heavily involved in national energy markets.=20 Lay wanted them to know so they could ""do anything they needed to,"" the spo= kesman said, adding that he didn't know when the calls were made.=20 Enron and Lay have been leading contributors to the President George W. Bus= h, as well as to a long list of Democratic and Republican candidates.=20 When asked if Lay had a personal connection to either Evans or O'Neill, the= spokesman said he ""had no idea.""=20 Prior to his appointment as Commerce Secretary, Evans served as chief execu= tive of Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), a Denver natural gas company. A longtime fri= end of Bush, Evans also served as general chairman of his presidential camp= aign.=20 Meanwhile, O'Neill headed Alcoa Inc. (AA), a Pittsburgh aluminum company, p= rior to his appointment.=20 Bush Thursday called for two working groups from his cabinet and other agen= cies to review matters related to events at Enron. The investigations would= be in addition to the criminal investigation launched by the Department of= Justice.=20 One group, from the Labor, Commerce and Treasury Departments, will look int= o Enron's pension rules and regulations. Another group, drawing from the Tr= easury Department, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commiss= ion, and the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission, will investigate c= orporate disclosure rules and regulations.=20 -By Christina Cheddar, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5166; christina.cheddar= @dowjones.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 US O'Neill Focuses On Regulatory Reform In Enron Review 01/11/2002 Dow Jones Capital Markets Report=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 (This article was originally published Thursday)=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said Thursday t= hat he would focus on regulatory reform as part of President George W. Bush= 's newly announced probe of Enron Co. (ENE). O'Neill told Fox News Channel that he would be part of two task forces stem= ming from the issue.=20 In the first, he would join Commerce Secretary Don Evans and Labor Secretar= y Elaine Chao to look at the impact of recent corporate bankruptcies on pen= sion benefits.=20 In the second, he would join Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Commo= dities Futures and Trading Commission Chairman James E. Newsome and Securit= ies and Exchange Chairman Harvey Pitt in looking into disclosure rules. O'N= eill said they will determine whether changes are needed ""to assure that in= vestors and markets have all the information they are entitled to have to m= ake our free-market economy work properly.""=20 In ordering the probe, Bush particularly pointed at the loss of pension ben= efits by employees at Enron, which filed for bankruptcy last month. As Enro= n's stock collapsed, employees were barred from selling the company's share= s while the energy trading company was changing pension administrators and = the accounts were frozen.=20 Asked for specific solutions, O'Neill suggested that the government needed = to see if 401(k) and other pension accounts need to be locked up when new a= dministrators come in.=20 ""We need to look at that and see if that is a sensible thing to do,"" he sai= d.=20 But beyond that, the Treasury secretary refused to be pinned down on possib= le remedies. ""I think we need to do a study and we need to do analysis,"" he= said.=20 ""We need to do analysis before we do prescription. It's a pretty good idea = to figure out what disease exists before we start cutting off arms and legs= ,"" he added.=20 O'Neill also stressed that this effort is motivated by Bush's concern for E= nron's employees. The Treasury secretary said the president is ""just hurtin= g a lot for people who apparently accumulated all of their savings in a 401= (k) plan and then lost it all in a couple of months."" -By Paul Rekoff, Dow = Jones Newswires; 201-938-4370; paul.rekoff@dowjones.com ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Arthur Anderson is Under the Microscope Deborah Marchini 01/11/2002 CNNfn: Before Hours=20 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved.=20 DEBORAH MARCHINI, CNNfn ANCHOR, BEFORE HOURS: As we`ve been reporting this = morning Arthur Anderson is under the microscope. The accounting firm admitt= ed yesterday, employee had destroyed key records of its audits of Enron.=20 I`m joined by Howard Schilit, president of the Center for Financial Researc= h and Analysis, a Washington, D.C. firm that provides research on just such= incidences for institutional investors. Thanks for being here this morning.=20 HOWARD SCHILIT, CENTER FOR FINANCIAL RESEARCH & ANALYSIS: Good morning.=20 MARCHINI: First, question I have for you is, if documents were destroyed at= Arthur Anderson, the firm`s auditors, was a crime necessarily committed?= =20 SCHILIT: Well, it`s too early to conclude what happened, and what did not, = why the records were destroyed. But it certainly raises some very serious q= uestions about the internal controls that the accounting firm. When they we= re destroyed? It`s certainly a very serious matter.=20 MARCHINI: If these documents were destroyed after the company became the su= bject of civil and criminal investigations, that would be obstruction of ju= stice, I presume?=20 SCHILIT: Well, again, I`m an accountant by training, not an attorney. But t= he role of the auditor is to raise assurance amongst investors in the compe= tence of the company. And auditors more than any other profession, understa= nds the importance of documentary evidence, and the work papers are an esse= ntial part of that.=20 MARCHINI: So, what you`re saying here is that it`s suspicious, they should = have known better than to do this?=20 SCHILIT: Oh, I think this is a very serious situation, which certainly is g= oing to be investigated very closely.=20 MARCHINI: Is there any precedent for the destruction of documents in a case= like this, where an audit is being questioned?=20 SCHILIT: I have never heard of any situation where work papers have been de= stroyed. Very often when there had been frauds. And there have been very ma= jor frauds in the last few years. (INAUDIBLE), for example, in order to pie= ce together what happened, there were years of documents. And in the case o= f Enron, it`s going to simply make the investigation much more difficult.= =20 MARCHINI: Make the investigation much more difficult for both the criminal,= the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, I presu= me?=20 SCHILIT: That`s right.=20 MARCHINI: What are the potential penalties for Arthur Anderson, if it turns= out they have broken the law?=20 SCHILIT: Again, that`s more of a legal question. In the case of past invest= igations by the SEC, and Arthur Anderson in particular has had several of t= hose recently. One with Waste Management (URL: http://www.wastemanagement.c= om/) . The other with Sunbeam (URL: http://www.sunbeam.com/) . There are mo= netary penalties and it could be very substantial.=20 The Securities and Exchange Commission may not permit this auditing firm to= take on any new clients. So it could be very substantial. Monetary and cer= tainly individuals involved who may have been obstructing justice, there ce= rtainly can be criminal penalties.=20 MARCHINI: What are the ramifications for Arthur Anderson`s business? You me= ntioned the prospect that they might be barred from not taking on any new a= uditing clients for awhile, if it turns out there`s a criminal violation. B= ut, they also run a rather large management consulting business. And I wond= er what this does to their ability to win business now in the free markets?= =20 SCHILIT: I`m sure it`s very difficult out there. Again, you probably want t= o speak to people at the company, to find out what their business wins (INA= UDIBLE) have been. But I`d be very surprised if this were not a very diffic= ult period for them to keep, and win new accounts.=20 MARCHINI: Understood. Howard Schilit, with the Center for Financial Researc= h and Analysis.=20 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SE= CURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM=20 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY B= E UPDATED.=20 Content and programming copyright 2002 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS = RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearin= g House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other tha= n for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except = for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be= printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any= fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or oth= er proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that= members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250= words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as the= y provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright ho= lder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litig= ation. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 O'Neill: Enron Situation `Just Another Piece Of Business' 01/11/2002 Dow Jones International News=20 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)=20 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said Friday tha= t the Enron (ENE) situation was ""just another piece of business"" to him whe= n the company's chief executive talked to him about its difficulties.=20 In an interview on ABC's ""Good Morning America,"" O'Neill said it was ""quite= appropriate"" for Enron chief executive Kennethy Lay to talk to him Oct. 28= and ""give me a heads-up"" about its difficulties. O'Neill said Lay had alerted him to Enron's difficulties to make sure that = capital markets weren't disrupted.=20 The Treasury secretary said ""he never asked me to help him at all."" O'Neill= said Lay hadn't told him that Enron had overstated its profits and he hadn= 't heard anything from Lay that he hadn't already read in newspapers or see= n on television.=20 O'Neill said he hadn't then told President George W. Bush about the convers= ation because Bush was busy with the war on terrorism.=20 The Treasury secretary said ""I'm a cabinet secretary. I know what my respon= sibilities are"" and he doesn't have to run across the street to the preside= nt all the time.=20 O'Neill said Enron may be important but this ""was just another piece of bus= iness."" O'Neill said he was also busy with the financial war on terrorism.= =20 The Treasury secretary said it looks as if Enron was operating within the e= xisting rules for 401K plans and if that was the case then the government w= ill have to see if changes should be made in the rules. He said Bush doesn'= t want employees' 401K plans harmed by such situations. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 O'Neill says Enron pension policies appear to have stayed within rules 01/11/2002 AFX News=20 (c) 2002 by AFP-Extel News Ltd=20 WASHINGTON (AFX) - Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said it appears Enron Co= rp was within the rules in managing its corporate pension affairs.=20 ""At first blush it looks like Enron operated within the rules and regulatio= ns that existed, and still exist today with regard to how they managed thei= r 401(k) plan,"" O'Neill said in an interview on ABC's Good Morning America. O'Neill was addressing allegations that top corporate executives were able = to cash out of stock while most employees' corporate pensions held as fixed= , untradeable investments in Enron stock.=20 He noted he has been tasked by President George Bush to look at possible re= forms of the corporate pension system, which currently allows companies to = limit sales of company stock held within the funds, to prevent further case= s like Enron, where many employees lost most of their personal savings.=20 Yesterday, O'Neill said employees should ultimately be able to make decisio= ns on their corporate pension investments, and should have a choice of asse= ts to invest in.=20 cxa/jad ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Enron's Auditor Says It Destroyed Documents Related to Case Jack Cafferty, Brooks Jackson 01/11/2002 American Morning with Paula Zahn=20 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House,= Inc.). All Rights Reserved.=20 Enron's auditor says it destroyed documents related to the case. The attorn= ey general, John Ashcroft, says he can't take part in the investigation.=20 JACK CAFFERTY, CNN ANCHOR: Let's go back to the story of Enron for a moment= . The ""Wall Street Journal"" this morning, they have said it best -- quote -= - ""The storm cloud hanging over Enron and its long-time auditor, Arthur And= ersen, just got darker"" -- unquote. The company's auditor says it destroyed documents related to the case. The = attorney general, John Ashcroft, says he can't take part in the investigati= on. He has a conflict of interest. Enron executives talked to two members o= f the president's cabinet just before the company collapsed.=20 CNN's senior correspondent Brooks Jackson joins us now from Washington with= a detailed look at the timeline of the fall of an energy giant -- Brooks, = good to have you with us.=20 BROOKS JACKSON, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Jack. Yes, those de= velopments, just a flurry of them here in the last 24 hours. You mentioned = the Arthur Andersen destruction of documents. Potentially the most serious = new development, the Securities and Exchange Commission took the unusual st= ep of saying they consider this extremely serious. And, boy, are they right= , because if any of those documents were destroyed after investigations beg= an, it could be criminal obstruction of justice.=20 As for Attorney General John Ashcroft's stepping aside, Democrats are sayin= g he did the right thing in doing that. He got something like $57,000 in ca= mpaign contributions from Enron for his senate campaign, before he was atto= rney general. Also, many attorneys in the U.S. Attorney's Office in Houston= are stepping aside. A lot of them have family ties to Enron executives and= Enron employees. That's, of course, where Enron is headquartered. Some of = the family members even lost money in 401Ks down there. So it's -- the Just= ice Department is still sorting out exactly who is going to be conducting t= his criminal investigation.=20 Those contacts with the White House -- or rather with the Bush administrati= on are interesting. Secretary O'Neill got two calls from Ken Lay, the Enron= chairman. O'Neill says those were just informational calls. He wasn't aske= d for any help. But Commerce Secretary Don Evans is saying that he was told= by Lay that Lay would welcome any help in preserving Enron's bond rating w= ith Moody's. Now -- and Lay's attorney is saying that he didn't ask for hel= p. In any case, no help was forthcoming, and the White House says they were= n't informed of this and that Lay and -- or excuse me -- that O'Neill and D= on Evans did the right thing.=20 Latest development today: 51 subpoenas are going out from the Permanent Sub= committee on Investigations of the U.S. Senate. Lay will get a subpoena. Ot= her Enron and Arthur Andersen officials will get a subpoena, all of the boa= rd members for the last several years of Enron, including -- and this is ve= ry unusual -- wife of U.S. Senator Phil Gramm -- Wendy Gramm, who was on th= e board and on the audit committee of Enron -- Jack.=20 CAFFERTY: Unbelievable. And of course, lost in all of this discussion -- no= t yours and mine -- but in the discussion about Enron in general is the fac= t that so many small investors and employees of the company lost their life= savings.=20 Brooks, we've got to move along. I thank you for that report very much -- B= rooks Jackson joining us from Washington.=20 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 800-CNN-NEWS OR USE OUR SE= CURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT www.fdch.com.=20 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY B= E UPDATED.=20 Content and programming copyright 2002 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS = RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearin= g House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other tha= n for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except = for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be= printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any= fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.'s copyright or oth= er proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that= members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250= words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as the= y provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright ho= lder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litig= ation. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Many Enron Documents Destroyed Carol Costello, Allan Chernoff 01/11/2002 CNN: Live at Daybreak=20 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House,= Inc.). All Rights Reserved.=20 Failing energy giant Enron's chairman is a long-time major contributor to P= resident Bush's career and to the Republican party. Adding to all of that, = the company's accounting firm has revealed its employees destroyed document= s sought in the investigation.=20 CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: And now to the monster fallout from the collaps= e of energy giant, Enron. The White House admits Enron officials sought the= administration's help last fall, shortly before the company collapsed. Enr= on's chairman is a long-time major contributor to President Bush's career a= nd to the Republican party. And Attorney General John Ashcroft has disquali= fied himself from the criminal investigation of Enron because of campaign d= onations he received from the company. Adding to all of that, the company's accounting firm has revealed its emplo= yees destroyed documents sought in the investigation. For details on that, = here's CNN Financial News Correspondent Allan Chernoff.=20 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)=20 ALLAN CHERNOFF, CNN FINANCIAL NEWS (voice-over): Four investigators from th= e House and Energy Commerce Committee arrived at Andersen offices in Housto= n yesterday to interview Enron auditors and collect documents. But they wer= e told there's a problem. Thursday afternoon, Andersen admitted material wa= s missing.=20 In recent months, individuals in the firm involved with the Enron engagemen= t disposed of a significant but undetermined number of electronic and paper= documents and correspondence relating to the Enron engagement. Potentially= thousands of documents that were part of Enron audits, according to the Ho= use Committee. Most of them, electronic, that were deleted in September, Oc= tober and November, the three months prior to Enron's bankruptcy filing.=20 FRANKLIN VELIE, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: This is a surprising, though, an= d very disappointing development. You would not ordinarily expect a major l= oss of documents by an accounting or auditing firm with respect to the affa= irs of its -- of its client.=20 CHERNOFF: Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement Chief Stephen Cutl= er said, ""Destruction of documents is an extremely serious matter,"" which h= e pledged, ""will be included within the scope of our investigation."" As the= company's auditor, Andersen had given a thumbs-up to Enron's financial sta= tements. The SEC and Justice Department are investigating whether those ver= y statements were used to hide Enron's financial condition from investors.= =20 JOSEPH BERARDINO, CEO, ARTHUR ANDERSEN: If my firm has made errors in judgm= ent, we will acknowledge them. We will make the changes needed to restore c= onfidence.=20 CHERNOFF: Andersen has hired former Senator John Danforth to review the com= pany's records management policy and ensure that remedial and disciplinary = actions are taken.=20 (on camera): Next Wednesday, House investigators plan to meet with the Ande= rsen partner in charge of the Enron audit. Said one committee staffer, ""We = plan to hold his feet to the fire.""=20 Allan Chernoff, CNN Financial News, New York.=20 (END VIDEOTAPE)=20 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 800-CNN-NEWS OR USE OUR SE= CURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT www.fdch.com=20 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY B= E UPDATED.=20 Content and programming copyright 2002 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS = RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearin= g House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other tha= n for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except = for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be= printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any= fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.'s copyright or oth= er proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that= members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250= words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as the= y provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright ho= lder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litig= ation. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron's Ken Lay says he only gave Washington a `headsup' By PETE YOST Associated Press Writer 01/11/2002 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 WASHINGTON (AP) - Transformed in just one day from the nation's biggest ban= kruptcy to a major political controversy, some of the players in the Enron = affair are already giving conflicting versions of who said what to whom.=20 Did Enron's Ken Lay ask for help or didn't he when he called Commerce Secre= tary Don Evans, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and Fed Chairman Alan Green= span in a four-day span in late October? If Lay didn't ask for anything, why did he call?=20 ""To give them a heads-up about the situation at Enron,"" company spokesman M= ark Palmer said.=20 ""At no time did he ask for any assistance from the government nor did he in= tend to leave any impression that he was asking for assistance,"" said Palme= r.=20 Evans's memory of his Oct. 29 phone call is that Lay said ""I would apprecia= te any support you could give.""=20 ""I did nothing"" and the decision to do nothing ""was a no-brainer,"" Evans sa= id in a brief interview Thursday with The Associated Press.=20 O'Neill insists Lay didn't ask for anything, but the context of their conve= rsation is intriguing because the two men discussed another financial disas= ter in which Greenspan's intervention was very much in evidence, the near-f= ailure in 1998 of a Connecticut-based hedge fund, Long Term Capital Managem= ent.=20 Greenspan's spokesman, Dave Skidmore, declined to say whether Lay asked for= anything.=20 Evans said the context for the call from Lay was the ongoing review of Enro= n's financial status by Moody's, the bond-rating firm.=20 A severe lowering of Houston-based Enron's bond rating would mean that $3.9= billion in company debt would come due. Enron would have to pay what it ow= ed in cash if it could not pay in stock, which was plummeting in value.=20 Palmer, the Enron spokesman, says he doesn't know whether the Moody's revie= w was the subject of the Lay-Evans conversation but that the company was co= ncerned because the bond-rating firm was taking a long time ""and we were wa= nting a decision.""=20 In the end, Moody's dropped Enron's rating, creating still more trouble for= the world's largest energy trader as it headed toward collapse. The compan= y went to bankruptcy court on Dec. 2.=20 Lay spoke to Evans the day after a Sunday, Oct. 28, phone call with O'Neill= and a phone call the previous Friday with Greenspan.=20 ""The chairman did nothing in response to the call. It would have been inapp= ropriate,"" said Skidmore, the Greenspan spokesman.=20 Skidmore refused to discuss the contents of the Greenspan call, but in one = of Lay's two conversations with O'Neill, the discussion turned to the case = of the Connecticut hedge fund that had been in danger of failure until Gree= nspan and other Federal Reserve officials pressured several large financial= institutions to bail it out.=20 Fed officials feared severe harm to the country's financial system if Long = Term Capital Management had been allowed to crumble. It nearly tanked durin= g the Asian financial crisis in the fall of 1998.=20 O'Neill ""expressed his concern about the experience that Long Term Capital = went through when Long Term Capital went bankrupt,"" said White House spokes= man Ari Fleischer.=20 In an interview with CNBC, O'Neill said that after one of their conversatio= ns, ""I subsequently asked the undersecretary of the Treasury to speak with = the Enron people, which he did, so we could satisfy ourselves that the Enro= n affairs were not going to have a negative impact on the U.S. capital mark= ets.""=20 So why did Lay make the flurry of calls if he didn't want anything?=20 He ""just felt an obligation to give them information important to the marke= ts and perhaps to the government,"" said Palmer.=20 While the information may have been important, the only action resulting fr= om it appears to have been a decision by the two Cabinet secretaries not to= tell President Bush. With Lay at the helm, Enron and its executives had be= en George W. Bush's most generous campaign donors over the course of two Te= xas governor's races and the presidential campaign.=20 When did Bush find out of the conversations between Lay, Evans and O'Neill?= =20 ""This morning,"" Fleischer said Thursday.=20 ---=20 AP business writer Brad Foss in New York contributed to this story. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Revelations about Enron, dealings with Bush officials, raise prickly questi= ons By MARCY GORDON AP Business Writer 01/11/2002 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 WASHINGTON (AP) - A cascade of revelations about the bankrupt Enron Corp. a= nd its dealings with Bush administration officials is raising questions abo= ut potential conflicts of interest as the Justice Department investigates t= he politically connected company.=20 The White House revealed Thursday that Enron officials sought the administr= ation's help last fall shortly before the energy-trading company melted dow= n along with the life savings of many of its employees. Several administrat= ion officials - and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan - received tele= phone calls from the Enron chairman, Kenneth Lay. Enron's auditing firm, whose work is under investigation by federal regulat= ors, disclosed that its employees had destroyed a ""significant"" number of d= ocuments - which a congressional source said was thousands of pages - relat= ed to Houston-based Enron.=20 In another startling development in a day brimming with them, Attorney Gene= ral John Ashcroft disqualified himself from Justice's criminal inquiry into= Enron's conduct. The energy-trading company donated thousands of dollars t= o Ashcroft's Senate campaign in 2000. In Houston, Enron's hometown, U.S. At= torney Michael Shelby announced that his entire office disqualified itself = from the investigation because he and other local prosecutors ""have family = relationships with individuals who are arguably affected by the Enron bankr= uptcy.""=20 Bush, who counts Enron among his biggest political contributors, pledged to= pursue aggressively the investigation into whether the company defrauded i= nvestors, including 401(k) plan holders, by concealing vital information ab= out its finances.=20 ""Ken Lay is a supporter,"" the president said. ""But what anybody's going to = find is that this administration will fully investigate issues, such as the= Enron bankruptcy, to make sure we can learn from the past and make sure th= at workers are protected.""=20 Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said Friday: ""On first blush it looks like = Enron operated within the rules and regulations ... with regard to how they= managed their 401(k) plan, and if they did, then we need to look and see i= f there are appropriate changes we could make."" He was interviewed on ABC's= ""Good Morning America.""=20 Bush said he saw Lay twice last year, but they did not discuss Enron's fina= ncial problems. Lay sought help last fall from Commerce Secretary Don Evans= , Bush's chief political fund-raiser and confidant, and contacted O'Neill a= bout the firm's financial problems, O'Neill and Evans said Thursday. Enron = also revealed that Lay called Greenspan, the independent Fed chairman, abou= t the company's problems.=20 Lay denied that he sought help from the officials. Enron said Lay's calls t= o O'Neill, Evans and Greenspan were simply to give them a ""heads-up"" about = Enron's problems.=20 ""He felt an obligation to let them know what was going on,"" Enron said in a= statement. ""At no time did he ask for any assistance from the government, = nor did he intend to leave the impression that he was asking for assistance= .""=20 Dave Skidmore, a spokesman for the Federal Reserve, said Lay contacted Gree= nspan on Oct. 26, and ""the chairman did nothing in response to the call. It= would have been inappropriate."" Skidmore would not characterize the conver= sation. Lay also first reached out to Evans on Oct. 26. The two eventually = spoke three days later. The first of Lay's two conversations with O'Neill w= as Sunday, Oct. 28.=20 Enron's bankruptcy, already the subject of criminal, civil and congressiona= l investigations, threatens to pull the White House into a political quagmi= re even as Bush's approval ratings reach near-record levels because of the = war against terror.=20 ""It is now clear the White House had knowledge that Enron was likely to col= lapse but did nothing to try to protect innocent employees and shareholders= who ultimately lost their life savings,"" said Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif.= =20 Firing back, Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer urged Democrats to avoid ""partisa= n witch hunts, endless investigations or fishing expeditions."" Democrats ho= pe to make a political issue out of the administration's many ties to Enron= .=20 The bankruptcy has forced White House officials to face questions once pose= d to the scandal-tainted Clinton White House.=20 Would Bush support naming a special prosecutor to investigate? Fleischer sa= id no. He also said he did not know any White House aides who had hired law= yers.=20 And there was a development reminiscent of Clinton's Whitewater: missing do= cuments.=20 The big accounting firm that audited Enron's books, Arthur Andersen LLP, no= tified investigators that it had destroyed a ""significant"" number of docume= nts related to the company. Andersen said it didn't know whether its direct= ive to preserve documents demanded by government investigators was violated= .=20 At the Securities and Exchange Commission, already investigating Andersen's= auditing work for Enron, Enforcement Director Stephen Cutler said destruct= ion of documents was ""an extremely serious matter"" but would not deter the = SEC from pursuing its probe.=20 As for the company's contacts last fall, administration officials said Lay = told Evans on Oct. 29 that he would welcome any support to help the company= deal with a bond-rating firm that was considering downgrading Enron. Enron= 's credit rating was critical because, if lowered, $3.9 billion in debt wou= ld come due. Of that amount, $2.4 billion previously had been hidden in par= tnerships that were created to keep debt off Enron's books.=20 In a brief interview, Evans said Lay told him: ""I would appreciate any supp= ort you could give."" Evans said Lay was not more specific. In response to t= he plea, Evans said, ""I did nothing.""=20 Evans said he didn't tell the president about the call because ""I didn't th= ink he needed to know.""=20 In one of two conversations with O'Neill, Lay discussed a past example in w= hich the Federal Reserve pressured several large financial institutions to = bail out a Connecticut hedge fund, Fleischer said.=20 The calls to Evans and O'Neill came after investors and the public learned = of the extent of Enron's problems, when the company posted major losses Oct= . 16.=20 Enron filed for bankruptcy Dec. 2, after months of conjecture about its fin= ances.=20 Other Enron-Bush administration ties:=20 -Bush raised nearly $114,000 in political action committee money and indivi= dual donations from Enron during the presidential campaign. Enron also gave= hundreds of thousands of dollars to Bush's two gubernatorial campaigns in = Texas. Independent analyses show that Enron employees donated almost $800,0= 00 from 1999 to 2001 to Bush, members of Congress and both parties. Most we= nt to GOP causes.=20 -Lay met with Vice President Dick Cheney or his aides six times last year b= efore release of the administration's energy plan. A Cheney spokeswoman sai= d he last talked with Lay in June, and never about Enron's financial status= .=20 -Senior Bush adviser Karl Rove owned Enron stock at the beginning of Bush's= term but sold it because of federal ethics rules. Economics adviser Larry = Lindsey earned $50,000 from Enron for serving on a company board last year.= =20 -Marc Racicot, whom Bush has appointed chairman of the Republican National = Committee, was a lobbyist for Enron last year. Racicot said he will do no m= ore lobbying work after he takes the GOP's top job. AP Photos, NY839-840=20 ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Enron says wholesale trading auction continuing; conclusion seen today 01/11/2002 AFX News=20 (c) 2002 by AFP-Extel News Ltd=20 LONDON (AFX) - Enron Corp said that the auction of its wholesale trading op= eration is continuing as scheduled.=20 ""Since the sealed bids were received on Monday, we have been negotiating wi= th the parties,"" said Enron Chief Financial Officer Jeff McMahon. ""These discussions are expected to continue into the night. We hope to have= a conclusion Friday morning, which would be announced when Enron plans to = make a recommendation to the Bankruptcy Court.""=20 bam ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Recycling plant defends Enron deal following criticism by Senate leader By STEPHEN SINGER Associated Press Writer 01/11/2002 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - The head of a quasi-public, statewide trash authorit= y is defending the agency's $220 million deal with the now-bankrupt Enron C= orp., following stepped-up criticism by a state Senate leader.=20 The Connecticut Resources Recovery Authority held a news conference Thursda= y to rebut comments by Senate Majority Leader George Jepsen, D-Stamford, a = candidate for the Democratic nomination for governor. CRRA President Robert E. Wright said the agency did nothing wrong in the en= ergy distribution deal with the Houston-based energy giant that declared ba= nkruptcy last month.=20 ""There's no information that will show it was anything but a very, very goo= d deal for CRRA,"" Wright said. ""I thought we had discussed this with him, b= ut if Senator Jepsen wants it explained again, it will be explained again.""= =20 Jepsen, who first questioned the CRRA-Enron relationship last month, called= a news conference at his Capitol office Thursday to repeat his criticism.= =20 ""It's incomprehensible to me they put all their eggs in one basket,"" Jepsen= said.=20 Jepsen has questioned why the state made a $220 million upfront, lump-sum p= ayment in the deal with Enron. The company formed in 1985 and grew into the= nation's seventh-biggest company in revenue by buying electricity from gen= erators and selling it to consumers.=20 Enron's collapse will force CRRA to raise by as much as 60 percent the cost= charged to towns to dispose of trash, Jepsen said.=20 Wright disputed Jepsen's cost estimate. ""I can't see that under any circums= tances,"" he said.=20 Jepsen has called the CRRA-Enron deal the largest loss of public money in C= onnecticut history. State Attorney General Richard Blumenthal is investigat= ing.=20 The U.S. Justice Department said Wednesday it had begun a criminal investig= ation of Enron Corp.=20 In Connecticut, United Illuminating Co. announced last week it replaced Enr= on as the utility's energy supplier, signing a $600 million power supply ag= reement with Dominion Resources.=20 CRRA, which accepts recyclable trash from 70 towns, struck a good deal with= Enron for the use of a 90-acre site in Hartford, Wright said. The site inc= ludes a trash-to-energy plant.=20 The deal with Enron was part of a complex transaction that also involved Co= nnecticut Light & Power Co., which owned the 90-acre site in Hartford's Sou= th Meadows area.=20 Under the state's electricity deregulation law, CL&P was mandated to divest= all its power-generating assets, including the South Meadows property.=20 To divest, CL&P had to buy its way out of a contract to buy steam power fro= m CRRA. That contract had 11 years left. The buy-out price was $280 million= .=20 Using state bond funds given to power companies to help them buy out of con= tracts and divest holdings under deregulation, CL&P sent $220 million to En= ron and $60 million to CRRA.=20 The money given to Enron was payment for the company taking over the obliga= tions of the steam purchasing contract with CRRA that CL&P relinquished.=20 CRRA used part of its $60 million to buy the 90-acre site, clean pollution = from the site and insure the property.=20 Wright, responding to Jepsen's criticism that CRRA made a mistake by failin= g to require Enron to post collateral or other security, said such a practi= ce does not exist in the industry.=20 He refused to rule out the possibility that CRRA will seek a bailout from t= he state.=20 ""We'd be crazy to say no to anything,"" he said.=20 Dean Pagani, a spokesman for Gov. John Rowland, said the governor is not wo= rried that CRRA's financial loss will jeopardize the state's finances.=20 ""He's confident that CRRA has a plan to work its way out of this situation,= "" he said.=20 The recycling agency is politically well connected. Its chairman, Peter Ell= ef, is co-chief of staff for the Republican governor. Rep. Brian J. Flahert= y, R-Watertown, is a spokesman for the agency and Sen. Thomas Gaffey, D-Mer= iden, heads the agency's recycling, environmental and education division.= =20 Wright said the episode is the result of deregulation and a new competitive= energy market.=20 ""You can't force a utility to take back an energy contract,"" he said. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Recycling plant defends Enron deal following criticism by Senate leader By STEPHEN SINGER Associated Press Writer 01/11/2002 Associated Press Newswires=20 Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.=20 HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - The head of a quasi-public, statewide trash authorit= y is defending the agency's $220 million deal with the now-bankrupt Enron C= orp., following stepped-up criticism by a state Senate leader.=20 The Connecticut Resources Recovery Authority held a news conference Thursda= y to rebut comments by Senate Majority Leader George Jepsen, D-Stamford, a = candidate for the Democratic nomination for governor. CRRA President Robert E. Wright said the agency did nothing wrong in the en= ergy distribution deal with the Houston-based energy giant that declared ba= nkruptcy last month.=20 ""There's no information that will show it was anything but a very, very goo= d deal for CRRA,"" Wright said. ""I thought we had discussed this with him, b= ut if Senator Jepsen wants it explained again, it will be explained again.""= =20 Jepsen, who first questioned the CRRA-Enron relationship last month, called= a news conference at his Capitol office Thursday to repeat his criticism.= =20 ""It's incomprehensible to me they put all their eggs in one basket,"" Jepsen= said.=20 Jepsen has questioned why the state made a $220 million upfront, lump-sum p= ayment in the deal with Enron. The company formed in 1985 and grew into the= nation's seventh-biggest company in revenue by buying electricity from gen= erators and selling it to consumers.=20 Enron's collapse will force CRRA to raise by as much as 60 percent the cost= charged to towns to dispose of trash, Jepsen said.=20 Wright disputed Jepsen's cost estimate. ""I can't see that under any circums= tances,"" he said.=20 Jepsen has called the CRRA-Enron deal the largest loss of public money in C= onnecticut history. State Attorney General Richard Blumenthal is investigat= ing.=20 The U.S. Justice Department said Wednesday it had begun a criminal investig= ation of Enron Corp.=20 In Connecticut, United Illuminating Co. announced last week it replaced Enr= on as the utility's energy supplier, signing a $600 million power supply ag= reement with Dominion Resources.=20 CRRA, which accepts recyclable trash from 70 towns, struck a good deal with= Enron for the use of a 90-acre site in Hartford, Wright said. The site inc= ludes a trash-to-energy plant.=20 The deal with Enron was part of a complex transaction that also involved Co= nnecticut Light & Power Co., which owned the 90-acre site in Hartford's Sou= th Meadows area.=20 Under the state's electricity deregulation law, CL&P was mandated to divest= all its power-generating assets, including the South Meadows property.=20 To divest, CL&P had to buy its way out of a contract to buy steam power fro= m CRRA. That contract had 11 years left. The buy-out price was $280 million= .=20 Using state bond funds given to power companies to help them buy out of con= tracts and divest holdings under deregulation, CL&P sent $220 million to En= ron and $60 million to CRRA.=20 The money given to Enron was payment for the company taking over the obliga= tions of the steam purchasing contract with CRRA that CL&P relinquished.=20 CRRA used part of its $60 million to buy the 90-acre site, clean pollution = from the site and insure the property.=20 Wright, responding to Jepsen's criticism that CRRA made a mistake by failin= g to require Enron to post collateral or other security, said such a practi= ce does not exist in the industry.=20 He refused to rule out the possibility that CRRA will seek a bailout from t= he state.=20 ""We'd be crazy to say no to anything,"" he said.=20 Dean Pagani, a spokesman for Gov. John Rowland, said the governor is not wo= rried that CRRA's financial loss will jeopardize the state's finances.=20 ""He's confident that CRRA has a plan to work its way out of this situation,= "" he said.=20 The recycling agency is politically well connected. Its chairman, Peter Ell= ef, is co-chief of staff for the Republican governor. Rep. Brian J. Flahert= y, R-Watertown, is a spokesman for the agency and Sen. Thomas Gaffey, D-Mer= iden, heads the agency's recycling, environmental and education division.= =20 Wright said the episode is the result of deregulation and a new competitive= energy market.=20 ""You can't force a utility to take back an energy contract,"" he said. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Financial Post: Canada Enron Canada 'critical' to auction in U.S.: Unit remains solvent: Part of p= ackage to sell trading business, Milnthorp says Claudia Cattaneo, Calgary Bureau Chief Financial Post; with files from Bloomberg News 01/11/2002 National Post=20 National FP4 (c) National Post 2002. All Rights Reserved.=20 CALGARY - Enron Canada Corp. cut half its staff and halted its trading oper= ations while waiting for an auction in the United States that could yield a= buyer today for Enron's trading business, the president and chief executiv= e of the Canadian unit said yesterday.=20 Robson Milnthorp said the Canadian arm will be ""critical"" to a deal to sell= Enron Corp.'s trading business because it has been the most profitable in = the company. The unit remains solvent, with more than $220-million in cash and more than= $100-million owed by counterparties -- partners with whom it has contracts= -- that are refusing to honour their obligations, he said in an interview.= =20 If there's no bid for the Canadian operation, Enron Canada will look for a = white knight of its own, he said.=20 ""We have been very careful not to jeopardize the efforts made on Houston's = part with respect to the [auction]. But if that was to fall through, Canada= would attempt to find its own white knight, so to speak. We had numerous e= xpressions of interest and none of those have been pursued at this time.""= =20 Houston-based Enron Corp. was negotiating yesterday with at least six poten= tial buyers for its wholesale trading business in an auction that was part = of efforts to reorganize itself under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The= auction was expected to continue into the evening.=20 In Manhattan, U.S. bankruptcy judge Arthur J. Gonzalez scheduled a hearing = for today to approve the sale.=20 Enron Canada was Canada's largest market maker of natural gas and power unt= il it was swept up in the failure of its indirect parent, which unraveled a= fter disclosures that Enron Corp. had shifted billions of dollars in debt o= ff its books. It was left saddled with at least US$40-billion in debt.=20 Enron Corp.'s troubles deepened this week with revelations that the U.S. Ju= stice Department has begun a criminal investigation. There was also an admi= ssion yesterday by the firm that audited Enron's books, Arthur Andersen LLP= , that a ""significant but undetermined"" number of documents related to the = company had been destroyed.=20 Mr. Milnthorp said the investigation ""has nothing to do with Enron Canada.""= =20 The Canadian unit attempted last month to distance itself from the parent a= nd re-emerge as an independent company but gave up after losing a bid in an= Alberta court to keep counterparties from unwinding contracts, its major a= sset.=20 Mr. Milnthorp said the Canadian arm was packaged as part of a deal to sell = Enron's overall trading business, which buys and sells oil, petroleum produ= cts, natural gas, electricity, metals, coal, forest products and steel, and= a variety of contracts and derivatives. The company would get cash and a 4= 9% stake in a new partnership called ""Netco,"" short for New Energy Trading = Company, under the proposed sale. The trading unit generated about 90% of E= nron Corp.'s US$100.8- billion in revenue in 2000.=20 Mr. Milnthorp said 75 employees in Calgary and Toronto were laid off after = last month's court proceedings and trading was suspended because of lack of= confidence in the market.=20 ""To be successful in this business, you need a very solid balance sheet tha= t creates the confidence necessary to enter into long-term transactions. Th= at's been one of the key criteria through the auction process,"" he said.=20 Enron Canada's remaining employees are ""trying to manage the estate and try= ing to work hard to co-operate with our customers to get them paid,"" he sai= d.=20 The unit is cash rich from the sale last month of its interest in the Sunda= nce B power-generating plant outside of Edmonton.=20 Bidders for all or parts of the trading operation include Citigroup Inc., t= he largest financial services company, UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, and = BP PLC, one of the largest oil and gas companies. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 World Enron files destroyed, auditor says: White House tries to insulate Bush fro= m growing scandal Jan Cienski National Post 01/11/2002 National Post=20 National A14 (c) National Post 2002. All Rights Reserved.=20 WASHINGTON - The White House moved quickly yesterday to contain growing que= stions about the collapse of energy trader Enron, hoping to insulate George= W. Bush, the U.S. President and former oil executive, from any political f= allout from the scandal.=20 Seeking to get out in front of the story, the White House yesterday acknowl= edged that senior administration officials received calls for help from Enr= on as the company went into a death spiral that ended with its bankruptcy o= n Dec. 2. Mr. Bush called Enron's fall ""deeply troubling"" and ordered Paul O'Neill, h= is Treasury Secretary, to review U.S. pension and disclosure rules to preve= nt a repeat of the Enron situation, in which employees' pensions were destr= oyed as the company fell.=20 Among a series of other developments, John Ashcroft, the U.S. Attorney-Gene= ral, recused himself from the criminal probe into the largest bankruptcy in= U.S. history because Enron had given him US$25,000 for his failed bid last= year to keep his U.S. Senate seat.=20 Enron's auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP, disclosed that a significant number o= f documents and electronic files related to Enron had been destroyed.=20 Enron, once the seventh-largest company in the United States and its larges= t energy trader, was ruined when the company announced on Nov. 8 it had ove= rstated earnings by US$638-million from 1997 to 2000. The company's share p= rice fell from more than US$90 to less than a dollar, wiping out the retire= ment savings of about 20,000 employees who were forbidden to sell their hol= dings.=20 Meanwhile, many of the company's senior directors, including Kenneth Lay, E= nron's chairman and chief executive, became fabulously wealthy when they ca= shed in large chunks of their shares before the stock price cratered.=20 Houston-based Enron and its executives have been the largest political dono= rs during Mr. Bush's political career, giving him more than US$623,000, acc= ording to the Center for Public Integrity.=20 Almost US$2-million more was given to the two leading political parties, al= though Republicans got 73% of the total.=20 Enron has ties to Republicans such as Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, whose wi= fe, Wendy, is a company director, Tom DeLay, the House majority whip, and D= ick Armey, the House majority leader.=20 Mr. Bush's senior advisor, Karl Rove, came under fire last year for not sel= ling his Enron shares quickly enough under federal conflict of interest gui= delines.=20 Mr. Lay met six times with Dick Cheney, the Vice-President, when he was put= ting together Mr. Bush's national energy policy.=20 Despite Enron's links to Washington, there has been no evidence it received= special favours.=20 ""Ken Lay is a supporter,"" Mr. Bush said yesterday. ""But what anybody's goin= g to find is that this administration will fully investigate issues, such a= s the Enron bankruptcy, to make sure we can learn from the past and make su= re that workers are protected.""=20 The President said he had never discussed Enron's situation with Mr. Lay an= d said the last time he had seen the disgraced executive was in Houston las= t spring.=20 The U.S. Justice Department has launched a criminal probe and the Departmen= t of Labor is investigating the firm, as are four committees from both the = U.S. Senate and the House.=20 Nonetheless, the Enron quagmire is threatening to suck in Mr. Bush, who has= enjoyed near-record popularity ratings because of his wartime leadership.= =20 ""It's now clear the White House had knowledge that Enron was likely to coll= apse but did nothing to try to protect innocent employees and shareholders = who ultimately lost their life savings,"" said Henry Waxman, a Democratic co= ngressman from California.=20 Mr. Bush's press secretary warned Democrats against ""partisan witch hunts, = endless investigations or fishing expeditions.""=20 Ari Fleischer said Mr. O'Neill and Don Evans, the Commerce Secretary, had b= oth been contacted by Mr. Lay as his company began to go under. Both men ag= reed to take no action to intervene and protect the company's bondholders a= nd Mr. Bush was not notified of the phone calls, Mr. Fleischer said, reject= ing the suggestion that the President had intentionally been kept ""out of t= he loop.""=20 Enron closed yesterday at 67 cents, down 12 cents on the New York Stock Exc= hange. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 City - Andersen check on Enron pulp. By Simon English. 01/11/2002 The Daily Telegraph=20 P33 (c) Telegraph Group Limited, London, 2002=20 in New York=20 ARTHUR Andersen, auditors to Enron, admitted last night it destroyed thousa= nds of internal documents in the run-up to the disgraced energy company's $= 70 billion collapse and could now face prosecution. It told US lawmakers and watchdogs that staff had ""disposed of a significan= t"" amount of paperwork relating to its work for Enron, for which it was pai= d more than $1m a week.=20 This includes emails and documents requested by the US Justice Department a= nd the Securities and Exchange Commission as their investigation into Ameri= ca's biggest ever bankruptcy gains momentum.=20 Andersen is ordering an inquiry into the shredding party, which occurred ""i= n recent months"", according to the accountancy firm.=20 Senator Billy Tauzin, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, = said: ""Anyone that destroys records to try to subvert our investigation sho= uld be prosecuted.""=20 Michael Donovan, a Philadelphia lawyer who is mounting a class action lawsu= it against Andersen on behalf of investors was shocked. ""Auditors save ever= ything,"" he said.=20 Last month, Andersen's chief executive Joe Berardino turned on his biggest = client, accusing Enron of withholding key financial information that made d= oing a proper audit on the business impossible.=20 He also admitted that Andersen, one of the biggest accountancy firms in the= world, had made ""honest errors"" in its assessment of Enron's financial str= ength.=20 As embarrassment mounts for George Bush because of his close links to Enron= and friendship with chairman Kenneth Lay, the President ordered a review o= f US pension laws.=20 More than 20,000 employees saw their pension funds, often largely invested = in Enron shares, devastated by the company's plunge into bankruptcy.=20 ""In light of the most recent bankruptcy, there needs to be a full review of= disclosure rules to make sure that the American stockholder is protected,""= said Mr Bush. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 News Business Enron scandal reaches White House BARRIE McKENNA With a report from Lily Nguyen in Calgary 01/11/2002 The Globe and Mail=20 Metro A1 ""All material Copyright (c) Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licenso= rs. All rights reserved.""=20 WASHINGTON -- Reports of missing Enron Corp. documents and secret White Hou= se meetings have deepened the political intrigue surrounding the launch of = a criminal probe into the largest corporate failure in U.S. history.=20 The Bush administration scrambled yesterday to distance itself from the Enr= on debacle as the collapsed company's auditors disclosed that key documents= have gone missing and White House officials confirmed the company unsucces= sfully sought an 11th-hour rescue. The case is already drawing comparisons to the Whitewater scandal, which do= gged former president Bill Clinton and triggered a $50-million (U.S.) inves= tigation by a special counsel into the failed Arkansas real-estate venture.= =20 Enron's legal and financial problems have also raised questions whether the= Bush administration can conduct an objective investigation into one of its= largest and most loyal political contributors.=20 Late last year and with the Houston-based company teetering on the brink of= failure, chairman Kenneth Lay -- a key campaign donor to President George = W. Bush and other top Republicans -- talked to Treasury Secretary Paul O'Ne= ill and Commerce Secretary Donald Evans about a possible rescue, the White = House disclosed yesterday. U.S. Vice-President Dick Cheney has acknowledged= he met with top Enron officials a half-dozen times last year as he was pre= paring the Bush administration's energy policy.=20 Mr. Lay's appeals were rejected, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told r= eporters.=20 Meanwhile, the accounting firm that audited Enron's books, Arthur Andersen = LLP, disclosed yesterday that some of its employees destroyed a ""significan= t but undetermined"" number of paper and electronic documents related to the= company.=20 Officials at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which is also pro= bing the Enron bankruptcy, said Arthur Anderson's destruction of documents = is an ""extremely serious matter.""=20 Federal law-enforcement agencies and congressional investigators are seekin= g the documents as part of their inquiries into the bankruptcy of the giant= energy-trading company. The destroyed documents include electronic files a= nd other documents related to its audit of Enron. Also yesterday, Attorney-= General John Ashcroft said he has stepped down from the criminal investigat= ion launched by his department after acknowledging that he took a campaign = donation from Enron during his failed 2001 U.S. Senate bid in Missouri.=20 Mr. Lay and Enron contributed a total of $57,499 to Mr. Ashcroft's campaign= , according to the Washington-based Center for Public Integrity. The Justic= e Department insisted Mr. Ashcroft has taken the high road by stepping asid= e as the sweeping nationwide probe gets under way.=20 ""The Attorney-General has not been involved in any aspect of initiating or = conducting any investigation involving Enron,"" the Justice Department said = in a statement.=20 The investigation is being conducted by U.S. Attorneys in New York, Houston= , San Francisco and elsewhere.=20 Mr. Bush, who received hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions fr= om Mr. Lay and other Enron executives for his presidential bid, pledged to = get to the bottom of the stunning collapse.=20 ""What anybody's going to find out is that this administration will fully in= vestigate issues such as the Enron bankruptcy, to make sure we can learn fr= om the past and make sure workers are protected,"" Mr. Bush said, making his= first public comments on the case.=20 Mr. Bush said he never discussed Enron's financial problems with Mr. Lay. T= he President said he last saw Mr. Lay in Texas at a spring fundraiser for a= Barbara Bush (his mother) literary foundation.=20 The Enron chairman was also among a group of about 20 business leaders who = came to the White House early in the Bush administration to discuss the sta= te of the economy, Mr. Bush said.=20 Thousands of Enron employees lost their life savings when the company filed= for bankruptcy Dec. 2.=20 Enron was the largest marketer of electricity and natural gas in the United= States before a crisis of confidence among investors forced the company to= file for bankruptcy protection in December. The company had a stock-market= value of nearly $80-billion and more than $100-billion in sales last year,= making it one of the largest companies in the world. But the empire starte= d to unravel last October after Enron revealed a series of large and previo= usly undisclosed debts to private partnerships, controlled by some of its o= wn executives.=20 Since the 1989-90 election cycle, Enron and its employees have made $2.4-mi= llion in contributions to U.S. federal political campaigns, the bulk of tha= t to Republicans. The Justice Department is believed to want to discover wh= ether Enron executives intentionally misled investors about those transacti= ons and the company's deteriorating financial condition.=20 The Justice probe isn't the only problem facing the company. The Securities= and Exchange Commission launched its own investigation. The company is als= o facing probes by the U.S. Department of Labour, the House of Representati= ves and the Senate.=20 Meanwhile, creditors, clients and others caught in the Enron fallout contin= ued to await the outcome of an auction of the company's trading empire.=20 Enron's bankruptcy lawyer, Martin Bienenstock of Weil Gotshal & Manges, tol= d Bloomberg News Agency that there are six bidders vying for the trading as= sets in the private auction being held at the firm's New York offices. Publ= ished reports have named large financial services companies.=20 Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG are among the bidders for Enron's Canadian tradin= g unit, Enron Canada Corp., which is also on the block. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Enron threatens to taint Bush --- Auditors say they destroyed many company = papers Ron Fournier ASSOCIATED PRESS 01/11/2002 The Toronto Star=20 Ontario E11 Copyright (c) 2002 The Toronto Star=20 The White House revealed yesterday that Enron Corp., an energy firm closely= tied to U.S. President George W. Bush, sought the administration's help sh= ortly before collapsing with the life savings of many workers. The company = denied it sought such help.=20 In a separate disclosure, the company's auditors said they destroyed many E= nron documents in the months before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commis= sion subpoenaed the firm. In the rapid swirl of events, each raising questions about potential confli= cts of interest, Attorney General John Ashcroft disqualified himself from t= he criminal inquiry into Enron's conduct. The company donated thousands of = dollars to Ashcroft's Senate campaign in 2000.=20 Bush, who counts Enron as one of his biggest political contributors, pledge= d to aggressively pursue the investigation into whether the Texas-based fir= m defrauded investors, including pension contributors, by concealing vital = information about its finances.=20 ""Ken Lay is a supporter,"" the president said of Enron chairman Kenneth Lay.= ""But what anybody's going to find is that this administration will fully i= nvestigate issues, such as the Enron bankruptcy, to make sure we can learn = from the past and make sure that workers are protected.""=20 Enron's bankruptcy, already the subject of criminal, civil and congressiona= l investigations, threatens to pull the White House into a political quagmi= re even as Bush's approval ratings reach near-record levels because of the = war against terrorism.=20 ""It is now clear the White House had knowledge that Enron was likely to col= lapse but did nothing to try to protect innocent employees and shareholders= who ultimately lost their life savings,"" said Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif.= =20 Firing back, Bush spokesperson Ari Fleischer urged Democrats to avoid ""part= isan witch hunts, endless investigations or fishing expeditions.""=20 Democrats hope to make a political issue out of the administration's many t= ies to Enron.=20 The bankruptcy has forced White House officials to face questions once pose= d to the scandal-tainted Clinton White House.=20 Would Bush support naming a special prosecutor to investigate? Fleischer sa= id no. He also said he did not know any White House aides who had hired law= yers.=20 And there was a development reminiscent of Clinton's Whitewater affair: mis= sing documents.=20 The firm that audited Enron's books, Arthur Andersen LLP, notified investig= ators that it had destroyed a ""significant but undetermined"" number of docu= ments related to the company. After the Securities and Exchange Commission = subpoenaed the accounting firm, it issued an instruction to preserve docume= nts, it said.=20 As for Enron's contacts last fall, administration officials said U.S. Comme= rce Secretary Don Evans and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill received calls = from Lay seeking help for his company.=20 Lay told Evans he would welcome any support in helping the company deal wit= h a bond-rating firm that was considering downgrading Enron, administration= officials said.=20 Enron's credit rating was critical because if it was lowered, $3.9 billion = (U.S.) in debt would come due. Of that amount, $2.4 billion previously had = been hidden in partnerships that were created to keep debt off Enron's book= s.=20 Evans quoted Lay as saying, ""I would appreciate any support you could give,= "" and said Lay was not more specific. ""I did nothing,"" Evans said of his re= sponse to the plea. ""It was a no-brainer."" Evans, one of Bush's oldest frie= nds, said he didn't tell the president about the call. ""I didn't think he n= eeded to know,"" he said.=20 In one of two conversations with O'Neill, Lay discussed a past example in w= hich the U.S. Federal Reserve Board pressured several large financial insti= tutions to bail out a Connecticut hedge fund.=20 Lay, for his part, said his calls to O'Neill and Evans were merely to give = them a ""heads up"" about Enron's problems. ""He felt an obligation to let the= m know what was going on,"" Enron said in a statement. ""At no time did he as= k for any assistance from the government nor did he intend to leave the imp= ression that he was asking for assistance.""=20 The calls came after investors and the general public learned of the extent= of Enron's problems, when the company posted major losses Oct. 16.=20 Enron filed for bankruptcy Dec. 2, after months of speculation about its fi= nances.=20 Administration officials dismissed suggestions that Evans or O'Neill should= have disclosed Enron's troubles as soon as they were brought to their atte= ntion last fall. That might have given more notice to investors about to lo= se their savings.=20 ""This is not the first bankruptcy and will not be the last bankruptcy"" in A= merica, Fleischer said.=20 Other aides said Enron's problems were well known at the time of the teleph= one calls, and the administration's duty was to make sure troubles at Enron= didn't have a broader economic impact.=20 Bush raised nearly $114,000 in political action committee money and individ= ual donations from Enron during the presidential campaign, making the compa= ny one of his biggest financial supporters. In addition, Enron gave tens of= thousands of dollars to Bush's two gubernatorial campaigns in Texas.=20 Independent analysts show that Enron employees donated nearly $800,000 from= 1999 to 2001 to Bush, members of Congress and both parties. The bulk went = to GOP causes.=20 With criticism mounting, Bush announced a review of federal rules on pensio= n security and financial disclosure by companies.=20 ""There have been a wave of bankruptcies that have caused many workers to lo= se their pensions and that's deeply troubling to me,"" Bush said. 'It is now= clear the White House had knowledge that Enron was likely to collapse but = did nothing to try to protect innocent employees and shareholders who ultim= ately lost their life savings.'=20 Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Threat to Bush in Enron inquiry. By Matthew Engel in Washington and David Teather in New York. 01/11/2002 The Guardian=20 P1 Copyright (C) 2002 The Guardian=20 President Bush moved rapidly yesterday to distance himself from the collaps= ed Enron Corporation as speculation grew that the bankruptcy of the giant e= nergy trading company could turn into his administration's most dangerous s= candal.=20 Hours after the justice department announced it was setting up a nationwide= team of prosecutors as part of a criminal inquiry into Enron, the White Ho= use ordered a review of rules affecting pension rights and corporate disclo= sure. Mr Bush told reporters he had not seen Enron's chairman, Kenneth Lay,= since last spring and had never discussed the company's financial problems= with him. Enron, the seventh ranked company on the Fortune 500, collapsed last month = - the biggest bankruptcy in corporate history. About 6,000 workers were lai= d off, many also losing their pensions because they subscribed to a retirem= ent plan based on Enron shares, which dropped from $90 ( #62) to pennies in= a year. The list of creditors runs to 54 pages but senior executives were = able to sell their stock before the price plummeted.=20 The company is believed to be the largest donor to Mr Bush's campaign funds= over the course of his career, and Mr Lay is an old Texas friend of the pr= esident. He was named as one of the president's energy advisers last year.= =20 The links between the administration and the company operate on many levels= . Marc Racicot, Enron's Washington lobbyist, was named last week as chairma= n of the Republican national committee. The president's chief economic advi= ser, Lawrence Lindsay, and the trade negotiator Robert Zoellick were advise= rs to the company.=20 Vice-president Dick Cheney, who also has strong links with the oil industry= , is known to have met Mr Lay in April to discuss energy policy. And staff = from Mr Cheney's energy taskforce met Enron executives at least six times, = with one meeting only six days before the company's troubles became public = in October. The administration, however, insists that the meetings covered = only policy matters and not Enron's financial position.=20 The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, was peppered with questions yeste= rday about whether Mr Bush and Mr Cheney were aware of the situation and if= not, why not.=20 ""Conversation is routine between people in this country and government,"" he= said at the daily briefing. ""There's a difference between corporate contac= t and wrongdoing.""=20 Mr Fleischer said that Mr Lay called the treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, = and the commerce secretary, Don Evans, before the company's downfall to war= n them. The two cabinet members ""agreed no action should be taken to interv= ene"".=20 Enron, whose interests extend to ownership of Wessex Water in Britain, is m= ainly in the business of creating markets between buyers and sellers of ene= rgy. The investigations already launched have highlighted the company's use= of offshore entities, apparently to hide its debts.=20 A justice department investigation on this scale into a single entity is th= ought to be unprecedented, and officials said it was an indication of the c= ase's potential significance.=20 Congressional Democrats, conscious of the efforts poured into the largely a= bortive investigation into Bill Clinton's property dealings at Whitewater, = are beginning to crank up their own investigations.=20 ""Enron makes Whitewater look like peanuts,"" the syndicated columnist Bill P= ress said.=20 The affair has also called into question the role of energy and financial r= egulators in the US. And it has done nothing for the reputations of Wall St= reet analysts who advised clients to put money into the company. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Andersen back in hot seat ; Accounting giant says Enron audit papers destro= yed Delroy Alexander, Tribune staff writer 01/11/2002 Chicago Tribune=20 North Sports Final ; N 1 (Copyright 2002 by the Chicago Tribune)=20 A Chicago-based accounting giant that has faced significant embarrassments = recently now may face unprecedented scrutiny.=20 Andersen took center stage in a potential scandal Thursday after disclosing= that its employees had destroyed a ""significant"" number of documents relat= ed to the sudden collapse of Enron Corp. For a company that has weathered damaging disclosures over its audits of Ho= uston-based Waste Management Inc. and Sunbeam Corp., the latest brouhaha co= uld be a further threat to credibility.=20 ""This is a deeply troubling development. It should never have happened,"" sa= id Billy Tauzin (R-La.), whose House Energy and Commerce Committee is inves= tigating Enron's collapse. ""Anyone who destroyed records simply out of stup= idity should be fired; anyone who destroyed records intentionally to subver= t our investigation should be prosecuted.""=20 Observers said destruction of the files made no sense, and that the records= might have provided clues for investigators probing the Enron case, the la= rgest bankruptcy in U.S. history.=20 ""I have never in my life heard of people in an accounting firm doing someth= ing like this,"" said Lynn Turner, a former chief accountant for the Securit= ies and Exchange Commission. ""People in these accounting firms are well-edu= cated professionals and supposedly well aware of their professional respons= ibility to the public.""=20 For its part, Andersen said in a statement that its company policy ""require= d in certain circumstances the destruction of certain types of documents."" = However, officials added that the firm is still ""working to gather the fact= s and determine appropriate disciplinary actions"" against employees.=20 Several observers suggested that the missing files likely were noticed only= after the SEC issued subpoenas in mid-December calling for Andersen to han= d over documents related to its Enron audits.=20 Andersen said the documents were discarded months before it received the su= bpoenas. ""After receiving the SEC subpoena, the firm issued an instruction = to preserve documents. At this time, we have not been able to determine whe= ther that instruction was violated,"" the firm said.=20 Andersen said that millions of Enron documents still exist and that it had = successfully retrieved some of the deleted electronic files. It is continui= ng efforts to ""fully learn and understand all the facts related to this iss= ue,"" according to the statement.=20 Auditors typically keep records for years, experts say. Most top accounting= firms keep records for more than seven years after work is completed, in c= ase of lawsuits.=20 It also is customary for audit firms to scan and file client documents at a= central electronic database or warehouse, according to analysts. Once that= is completed, original hard copies are often destroyed.=20 Policy suspended=20 Andersen said it had ""suspended its current records management policy effec= tive immediately and instructed all partners and personnel to retain all ex= isting documents until further notice.""=20 Furthermore, Andersen said it has asked former U.S. Sen. John Danforth to r= eview its policies and recommend potential improvements.=20 Andersen has been in the spotlight before for its audits.=20 In June, Andersen reached a $7 million settlement with the SEC in which it = neither admitted nor denied allegations of fraud in its audit of Houston-ba= sed Waste Management Inc. Andersen and the waste hauler also paid $220 mill= ion in 1999 to settle class-action lawsuits relating to the case.=20 Last year, Andersen agreed to pay $110 million to settle class- action liti= gation brought on behalf of shareholders of another client, Sunbeam Corp., = which had misstated its financial results during the 1990s.=20 However, the record payout for audit problems remains $335 million paid by = Ernst & Young to Cendant Corp. shareholders in 1999.=20 Public concern over the veracity of audits has heightened since Enron's deb= acle, with regulators focusing on Andersen's performance.=20 The news is a blow not only to Andersen, but also to the profession, which = said it would come up with new rules to help regulate itself after Enron's = problems emerged.=20 Just last week, the self-regulatory process was called into question after = rival Big Five firm Deloitte & Touche gave Andersen's auditing practice a c= lean bill of health.=20 Problems for claim=20 The news may also present problems for Andersen's claim that it was misled = by Enron executives, experts said.=20 In mid-December, Andersen's chief executive, Joseph Berardino, told the fir= st congressional hearing into the collapse that it warned Enron about ""poss= ible illegal acts,"" saying the energy-trading giant withheld crucial data a= bout its complex finances.=20 Some observers warned that the credibility of that claim may now have been = damaged as a result of the missing documents.=20 ""Essentially, they've already claimed that management committed a fraud on = them,"" said Mark Cheffers, a former PriceWaterhouse auditor who now runs Ac= countingMalpractice.com, a liability training Web site that caters to 20,00= 0 accountants.=20 ""Evidence that documents have been destroyed that relate to the very events= that are under investigation represents a terrible blow for the defense th= at management misled them,"" he added. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 Business Andersen gap starts shredding trust all around David Greising 01/11/2002 Chicago Tribune=20 North Sports Final ; N 1 (Copyright 2002 by the Chicago Tribune)=20 Now the Enron debacle has its own 18 1/2-minute gap.=20 The famous gap arose during the Watergate investigation when part of a trou= blesome Richard Nixon conversation was ""accidentally"" erased from a White H= ouse tape. Enron's auditor, Chicago-based Andersen, disclosed its own smelly blank spa= ce Thursday. Andersen employees created a huge gap when they destroyed thou= sands of files that arose from Andersen's Enron audits.=20 File shredders and computer delete keys went into overdrive from September = to November of last year. Strange coincidence. That's the period of Enron's= straight-line depreciation from world's largest energy trader to nation's = largest bankruptcy.=20 Think the Watergate comparison overreaches? Well, I doubt a president will = fall because of it. Shredded documents at an accounting firm hardly mean sc= andal will reach the oval office.=20 As scandals go, this looks more like a Teapot Dome. About oil and money fir= st, and politics second.=20 Even so, at this early stage, the Enron case has stronger connections at hi= gher levels than the scandal that started as a ""third-rate burglary.""=20 Atty. Gen. John Ashcroft and a top aide stepped out of the criminal investi= gation because Ashcroft got $60,000 in Enron contributions during his 2000 = senate campaign. The entire U.S. attorney's office in Houston recused itsel= f because of family and professional ties to Enron.=20 Other administration officials took Enron money, too. President Bush heads = the list, with $2 million in donations from Enron Chairman Ken Lay and comp= any employees since 1993.=20 Money buys access. We'll find out over time if it bought improper influence= .=20 Ken Lay last fall contacted Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and Commerce Se= cretary Don Evans as Enron broke down around him. He reportedly asked O'Nei= ll about a possible government-orchestrated bailout like the one that limit= ed damage from the collapse of Long Term Capital Management.=20 Enron didn't get a bailout. But there surely will be other influence questi= ons as the Enron saga unfolds.=20 For example, what emerged from Lay's private meetings with Vice President C= heney during development of the administration's energy policy? What did La= y want from Cheney, anyway--extra room in the strategic petroleum reserve w= here Andersen could store damaging Enron documents?=20 An administration's first instinct is to minimize the scandal and deflect a= ttention.=20 The Bush White House chose to spin this scandal as a possible oversight fai= lure, and a sign regulations can't keep up with an increasingly complex eco= nomy.=20 ""This is not about Enron,"" Treasury's O'Neill told Lou Dobbs on CNN. ""This = is about making sure that the rules and regulations that govern the way our= economic system works are worthy of the conditions in the market today.""= =20 Nice try. But it won't work any better for O'Neill than it did for Andersen= chief Joe Berardino, who tried a similar argument late last month when he = first stepped into the sights of one of the congressional committees invest= igating the Enron mess.=20 I'd say Berardino and O'Neill are reading from the same playbook. Except, a= ny playbooks Andersen had probably have been shredded by now.=20 There are loopholes in oversight, particularly in the mostly self- regulate= d accounting industry. But O'Neill and Berardino are dead wrong. This scand= al certainly is about Enron.=20 It's about thousands of employees who have lost their jobs and pensions. In= vestors who have lost their money.=20 Executives who dumped their stock just before the scandal hit.=20 And that's just for starters.=20 Andersen already was at the heart of the scandal. And with Thursday's revel= ations, it's clear that the Bush administration will be knee-deep in discus= sing--or maybe denying--its Enron questions for a good long time.=20 Here's another memorable Watergate reference: The toothpaste really came ou= t of the tube Thursday.=20 It's never going back in. For President Bush's administration and for Chica= go's Andersen, the key question now is how big a mess it will make.=20 ----------=20 Contact dgreising@tribune.com. ...........................................................................= ..........................................................=20 NATIONAL EXPERTS SAY WILLFUL INTENT TO DECEIVE IS DIFFICULT TO PROVE IN FINANCIAL FR= AUD PROSECUTION A TOUGH CHORE ROBERT MANOR AND MELITA MARIE GARZA, CHICAGO TRIBUNE 01/11/2002 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette=20 REGION A-11 (Copyright 2002)=20 Government attorneys face major obstacles in their investigation of Enron C= orp., legal experts say, and while prosecution is possible, it could take m= any months to find evidence of crime.=20 The Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other au= thorities are examining the collapse of Enron, an energy conglomerate that = entered bankruptcy late last year. Enron had failed to disclose heavy debts= it had taken on through a complex series of partnership agreements, leadin= g investors to believe the company was financially strong. Despite Enron's spectacular downfall, experts say it is extremely hard to p= rove criminal wrongdoing when corporate executives engage in deceptive acco= unting practices.=20 ""Criminal liability requires a willful attempt to deceive,"" said Jeffrey Go= rdon, a professor at Columbia Law School. ""Financial fraud cases are very d= ifficult to prosecute because it is difficult to prove to a jury that the i= rregularities were willful in their intent to deceive.""=20 While prosecutors may find it tough going to develop a case against Enron e= xecutives, the government does have vast resources to tap. The high-profile= nature of Enron's failure -- and the fact that executives sold $1 billion = worth of stock before the company announced its accounting problems -- mean= s investigators are likely to use every tool to determine what happened and= who is responsible.=20 Even in the absence of criminal charges, the Justice Department's moves cou= ld have a strong impact in Washington, embroiling the Bush administration a= nd others with ties to Enron in a firestorm of damaging disclosures.=20 Enron, once the nation's seventh largest company in terms of its stock capi= talization, was the leading market-maker in energy. It bought power from ge= nerators and sold it to consumers. It also traded in coal, fiber-optic band= width, plastic and other commodities.=20 The Justice Department is interested in partnerships Enron set up, allegedl= y to keep debt off its balance sheet and out of the eyes of investors. Enro= n recently admitted it had overstated profits by $580 million beginning in = 1997.=20 ""They created limited partnerships where Enron was the master partner in co= ntrol of the money,"" said Rob Plaza, a stock analyst with Morningstar. ""The= n using Enron stock as collateral, they went out and found investors"" to le= nd the partnership money.=20 The money went to Enron; but the debt remained, at least in Enron's way of = accounting, with the partnership. Plaza said the arrangement, disclosed onl= y late last year, was typical of Houston- based Enron's corporate behavior.= =20 But that does not mean Enron executives are guilty of any crime, and if the= y are, that the government can prove it to a jury.=20 ""There may not be a clear rule of law"" that applies to any particular accou= nting scheme, said Douglas Baird, a professor at the University of Chicago = Law School. ""These aren't very well defined offenses.""=20 Baird spoke in general and not specifically of Enron. It is rare for a corp= orate executive to be led away in handcuffs, even in major instances of fra= ud.=20 A new problem for investigators emerged yesterday. Chicago-based Andersen, = which had audited Enron, said it cannot find a ""significant but undetermine= d number of electronic and paper documents and correspondence relating"" to = Enron.=20 One securities lawyer said the loss of the Enron documents could hobble the= government's case.=20 ""If Andersen were withholding documents and they were sloppy, that makes it= harder for the government to use them as a witness,"" said Brad Bennett, an= SEC criminal defense lawyer in Washington, D.C. ""The defense lawyers for E= nron could use the loss of the documents to suggest that Andersen was part = and parcel of the conspiracy.""=20 But John Coffee, a Columbia University Law School professor who testified b= efore Congress on the Enron case, said the government can still use Anderse= n.=20 ""The source of testimony most damaging to Enron would be Andersen, ""Coffee = said. ""Andersen has said there were errors, and that they made only honest = 
Justice Dept. to Form Task Force To Investigate Collapse of Enron The New York Times, 01/10/2002 U.S. Puts Task Force on Criminal Probe of Enron The Wall Street Journal, 01/10/2002 U.S. opens criminal inquiry into Enron: Justice sets up probe of financial collapse Houston Chronicle, 01/10/2002 Justice Department begins criminal probe of Enron collapse Associated Press Newswires, 01/10/2002 Judge declines to freeze profits of Enron officers Houston Chronicle, 01/10/2002 White House Was a Home For Enron Newsday, 01/10/2002 USA: White House says seeking post-Enron policies. Reuters English News Service, 01/09/2002 USA: Enron creditors gearing up for haggling at auction. Reuters English News Service, 01/09/2002 USA: UPDATE 1-GAO to decide within month on White House suit. Reuters English News Service, 01/09/2002 Joined at the Hip The New York Times, 01/10/2002 Commentary: Compassionately Conserving Enron Los Angeles Times, 01/10/2002 Cheney's closed doors The San Francisco Chronicle, 01/10/2002 Mysteries of the Energy Plan Los Angeles Times, 01/10/2002 UK: Wall St seen inching up, Enron dives in Europe. Reuters English News Service, 01/10/2002 Enron Sees Court OK For Asset Sale Despite Objections Dow Jones Energy Service, 01/10/2002 Enron May Reject Contracts, Leases With 10 Days Notice Dow Jones News Service, 01/10/2002 ____________________________________________________________ Business/Financial Desk; Section A Justice Dept. to Form Task Force To Investigate Collapse of Enron By KURT EICHENWALD with JONATHAN D. GLATER 01/10/2002 The New York Times Page 1, Column 3 c. 2002 New York Times Company<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = ""urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"" /> Widening the potential scope of the criminal investigation into the Enron Corporation, the Justice Department plans to form a special task force of prosecutors from across the country to conduct the inquiry into the company and its eventual collapse, government officials said yesterday. At the same time, the decision will reduce the burdens going forward on Enron, which has been struggling with the demands from multiple civil and criminal investigations. By consolidating the criminal investigations, the company will have only one coordinated group of prosecutors seeking information, decreasing the potential demands for documents and limiting the number of officials to persuade of its position. Legal experts said the decision to create such a task force on a white-collar case involving a single company was virtually unheard-of and signaled that the government might elevate the case to a level of significance usually reserved for investigations of entire industries. The task force will bring together prosecutors from several United States attorneys' offices -- including those in Houston, New York City and San Francisco -- with all of them reporting through the department's criminal division, officials said. In addition, prosecutors from the fraud section, part of the criminal division, will be part of the task force. ''This is a case of national scope and national significance that is going to require coordination and manpower, and the task force is a way of achieving that,'' one official said. Robert S. Bennett, a Washington lawyer who represents the company, said last night that he saw the department's decision as positive. ''I'm pleased that there now appears to be some centralization and coordination, because it is very difficult and expensive to deal with half a dozen different entities,'' he said. ''This is a company in bankruptcy, and it needs to be given a fair shot to come out of bankruptcy and increase the value for stakeholders. If we get caught in a cumbersome scandal machine, that may not happen.'' While the decision to form the task force is final, many details have yet to be worked out, officials said. Some prosecutors involved in the case have not been notified of their specific roles in the task force, and other decisions about where the group will work and how the various strands of investigation will be coordinated have not been determined. The Justice Department has formed numerous task forces in the past, but they have usually focused either on complex cases of violent crime or conducted inquiries into practices by entire industries. Legal experts who have examined the Enron case said yesterday that by bringing together the disparate pieces of the sprawling criminal investigation of the company, the government is overcoming hurdles that might have hampered the inquiry if it was conducted in separate offices. For example, while federal prosecutors in Manhattan have the most experience in investigating complex white-collar cases, they might face difficulty in meeting the requirement that potential crimes took place in their geographical jurisdiction. And while prosecutors in Houston, where Enron is based, would have no such problems, they do not have the same experience in white-collar cases. By bringing the prosecutors together, while simultaneously adding the manpower from the department's fraud section, legal experts said, the government is raising the probability of indictments. ''Prosecutors tend to indict what they investigate,'' said John C. Coffee Jr., a law professor at Columbia University who has testified in Congress on the Enron case. ''This kind of task force for an individual investigation is without precedent, and while it doesn't guarantee an indictment, it certainly raises the stakes.'' But some past efforts by the Justice Department to take a more central role in a criminal investigation of a corporation with influence in Washington have raised concerns about potential political influence over the inquiry. For example, in the 1990's, when part of an inquiry involving the Archer Daniels Midland Company was assigned to the fraud section, some critics contended -- to the vehement denials of Justice officials -- that Washington was trying to protect Archer, the politically influential grain company. Enron, whose officers have been close to both President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, has exercised similar political influence in the past. In addition to the inquiry being conducted by the Justice Department, Enron's collapse is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and several Congressional committees. Meanwhile, in Enron's bankruptcy proceedings, parts of the company are now up for auction to the highest bidder. For example, an auction of its trading business is scheduled to take place today, and a spokeswoman said it should be presented to the bankruptcy court at a hearing tomorrow. But a speedy approval by the court is not assured. Several creditors have filed objections to the auction because they are worried that they will not have time to evaluate whether all or parts of the business will be sold at a fair price. Creditors have also expressed concern about what would happen to the proceeds from the sale. Creditors of Enron North America, the unit that owns the trading business, want to make sure that the money goes to them and is not distributed among all the company's creditors. In Houston yesterday, in a suit filed by investors against 29 Enron directors and officers, a federal judge dealt a setback to plaintiffs by declining to freeze more than $1 billion that they say the directors and officers gained from the sale of Enron shares while hiding information about the company's decline. However, the judge also told defendants that she had the power to freeze the assets if necessary. Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. U.S. Puts Task Force on Criminal Probe of Enron By Rebecca Smith Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 01/10/2002 The Wall Street Journal A3 (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) The Justice Department said a task force has been formed to pursue a criminal investigation of Enron Corp., confirming a probe that is expected to center on possible accounting fraud. The investigation will be run by the department's criminal division coordinating among U.S. Attorneys in New York City, San Francisco, Houston and elsewhere. The Wall Street Journal first reported the criminal investigation in early December. Enron, the nation's biggest marketer of electricity and natural gas, filed for bankruptcy-court protection following a crisis of confidence among its investors. The problems have resulted largely from Enron's dealings with private partnerships, run by some of its own executives. The company saw its market value plunge recently to about $540 million from more than $77 billion last year. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has been investigating Enron since October, and the Justice Department could both file cases alleging violations of securities laws if Enron is found to have intentionally misled investors about its financial condition. Several Congressional committees also have begun inquiries into various aspects of Enron's collapse. 
Attached are the latest communication materials.  We DO NOT have a deal yet, but I am sending these so that you have time to review before holding floor/staff meetings in the event we have an announcement later today.  Please do not forward these materials, as they are not yet final.  If there are any changes in these materials when the deal becomes final, I will resend them.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. Karen x39757 Attachments: -- timeline for communication rollout -- key messages, for use with internal and external audiences -- talking points for use with employees -- email to employees w/ link to Q&As -- video script (to be viewed by employees on the intranet: UpFront!) -- External Q&A, for use with the media and external audiences -- Internal Q&A, for background use in meetings with employees -- Intranet Q&A, posted on the web for employees 
Enron Still Target in California Amid Other Problems (Update1) 2001-10-26 16:15 (New York) Enron Still Target in California Amid Other Problems (Update1) (Updates with closing share price in last paragraph.) Sacramento, California, Oct. 26 (Bloomberg) -- Enron Corp., facing an inquiry by federal securities regulators into partnerships run by the former chief financial officer, remains a target of investigations and lawsuits in California. California lawmakers and regulators have accused power providers of manipulating the state's energy market to raise prices. Enron, the biggest energy trader, and other power sellers have denied the charges repeatedly. Next month, a California Senate committee investigating the power market plans to hold a hearing to determine if Enron and other generators are complying with subpoenas for trading documents. Enron has been filing documents in Sacramento, California. ``They are still putting documents in their depository, and I don't think they've completed that process,'' said Alexandra Montgomery, a consultant to the committee. It ``remains to be seen'' whether Enron is complying with its subpoena, she said. The suits and inquiries came after wholesale power prices in California soared, leaving the state's two largest utilities insolvent. Under California's plan to open its electricity market to competition, the utilities of PG&E Corp. and Edison International weren't allowed to pass rising costs to customers. ``I know that we're doing our best to comply with what the committee is asking for,'' Enron spokesman Mark Palmer. ``We are putting documents in the depository, and we're looking forward to a speedy resolution.'' Shares of Houston-based Enron have fallen by more than half since Oct. 16. The company ousted Andrew Fastow as the chief financial officer Wednesday amid a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry into a partnership he ran that cost Enron $35 million. Grand Jury Enron also is one of the companies being investigated for civil and criminal violations by California Attorney General Bill Lockyer, who convened a grand jury in June. Lockyer has been criticized by Enron officials for telling the Wall Street Journal in May that he would like to put Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay in ``an 8 x 10 cell that he could share with a tattooed dude who says `Hi my name is Spike, honey.' '' Lockyer later apologized for the remark. The attorney general's investigation is proceeding, Lockyer spokeswoman Sandra Michioku said. Michioku said she didn't know when civil or criminal charges against Enron or other power providers might be filed. ``Our investigation is still being pursued,'' she said. ``We had to go to court to get Enron to turn over documents, so that slowed things down a bit.'' Enron's Palmer said he didn't know the status of the attorney general's investigation. ``I think the attorney general demonstrated his willingness to take a fair and impartial look a long time ago when he made his vulgar and unfounded remarks about our chairman,'' Palmer said. More Lawsuits Enron, along with other major power providers such as Duke Energy Corp. and Dynegy Inc., face at least five lawsuits alleging they manipulated California energy prices in violation of antitrust laws. The cases, which include separate complaints filed by the City of San Francisco, California Lieutenant Governor Cruz Bustamante and various consumers, currently are in state courts awaiting a coordination proceeding, said Michael Aguirre, a lawyer representing Bustamante. The lawsuits should be assigned to a judge by the end of next month, he said. If the complaints succeed, the companies might be ordered to repay profits from any illegal activities and pay fines, including triple damages. Enron's stock fell 95 cents, or 5.8 percent, to $15.40, declining for the eighth day in a row. The shares have fallen 80 percent in the past 12 months. 
California; Metro Desk The State Enron Records to Stay Secret Court: A judge orders confidentiality for the power firm's documents. A Senate panel probing electricity price gouging has subpoenaed them. NANCY VOGEL TIMES STAFF WRITER 09/07/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-8 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- Enron Corp., the giant Texas-based seller of electric power, won a court ruling Thursday in its quest to guarantee the secrecy of hundreds of thousands of internal business documents sought by state lawmakers. A Senate committee investigating price gouging in California's wholesale electricity market subpoenaed Enron's documents in April, seeking records of electricity sales, bidding strategies, prices and out-of-state transactions. The company refused to make the documents available without a court order protecting the confidentiality of the records. Enron sued July 11, and on Thursday Sacramento County Superior Court Judge Charles C. Kobayashi granted the company's request for a protective order. The judge noted in his order that Enron is a business competitor of the California Department of Water Resources, which began buying electricity on behalf of the state's two largest utilities last January. 
Access and asks for CPUC Support 
FYI, JDS Uniphase Corporation was one of the 150 California companies that received our direct access letter.  Please see the attached letter that they sent to the CPUC commissioners. 
fyi, info from Duke responding to charges made by ex-employees... 
Gary, I just sent this to your other e-mail address.  The Lt Gov. was in on this San Diego employee thing at the Dunn hearings, so this may come up. The credibility of these former SDG&E employees was very weak in the hearing and their allegations are absurd..... ________________________________________________________________________ To California news media covering electricity crisis: As a result of the false claims by three former San Diego Gas & Electric employees we have been in the news a bit lately. To add a bit of clarity to the situation I am sending you our release issued Friday that goes through each of the three claims and our response. To more fully understand the situation, please read the attached story that appeared in the LA Times yesterday. These reporters had the logs that were stolen from our South Bay Power Plant in Chula Vista more than two weeks ago.  We went through these log books line by line with these reporters. They also obtained confidential information from the Cal-ISO during these three days (January 16-18) that indicated that we were operating at their instruction when ramping up an down the units.  This is because the ISO purchased the ability to move the units up and down to help ensure the state's supply and demand is in balance.  This is a common practice and done every hour of every day by the ISO at plants that are able to provide this service. Its unfortunate that we were not allowed to respond to these charges when they were made formally in Senator Dunn's  committee hearing Friday (although the information was leaked way before the hearing by someone).  I understand that Governor Gray Davis is meeting with these former SDG&E employees tomorrow.  We had tried to personally meet with the governor last summer to offer very inexpensive long term power contracts and 2000 megawatts of peaking plants in 2001 and 2002 and were not able to. Tom Williams Director of Public Affairs Duke Energy North America Morro Bay, CA ______________________________________________________________________________ _____ Los Angeles Times via Dow Jones 
debate between me and Bustamonte This Thursday I will be a guest along with our favorite Lt Gov on California Capital Week.  I can't think of a worse time to have this, since Bustamonte is the point man on fhe three witnesses that participated in last Friday's public Senate Hearing on price manipulation.  So feed me your advice.  I am trying to take the high road, but I will warn you right now that if Bustamonte makes any of his outrageous statements in front of me, I will boldly correct him in no short order. gba 
I took a call from a reporter this morning about pricing info for May 9 (the reporter wants to make the point that the state overpaid for its contracts). I got the following info from Bob Badeer: May 9 -- prices at SP15 (location north of LA-south, but excluding LA) for July forward -- flat price, 7/24 5-year: $75/MWh 10-year: $63 today (6/28): 5-year: $42 
See attached -- this came up in this morning's call and I asked for the=20 transcript.  We need to find out how many trades we did before the price=20 jumped back up.  kd 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
Political  Philosophies: Explained in Simple ""Two-Cow"" Terms with an Update for the  state of California Socialism: You have two cows. You keep one, but  must give the other to your neighbor. Communism: You have two cows.  The government takes both and provides you with milk. Fascism: You  have two cows. The government takes both and sells you the  milk. Bureaucracy: You have two cows. The government takes them,  shoots one, milks the other, pays you for the milk, and then pours it down  the drain. Dictatorship: You have two cows. The government takes both,  then shoots you. Capitalism: You have two cows. You sell one and buy a  bull. Democracy: You have two cows. The government taxes you to the  point that you must sell them both to support a man in a foreign country who  has only one cow, which was a gift from your own  government. Corporation: You have two cows. You lay one off, force the  other to produce the milk of four cows, then act surprised when it drops  dead. California: You have two cows. The state tells you how to milk  your cows, when to milk your cows, how much to milk your cows and the most  that you can charge for the milk. You go broke and sell the cows. The state  calls you 
It's unfortunate that the state's largest utility was forced to turn to the courts for a resolution.  Solutions to the state's energy crisis have been available for months that would have avoided this scenario, but Gov. Davis and the Legislature lacked the bold leadership to take swift, decisive action. Enron's exposure to PG&E will not have any material effect on earnings or on our financial condition. If pressed:  Any further comment would be speculative, as we have not yet 
this is funny... 
> > Rollin', rollin', rollin', > > Though the state is golden, > > Keep them blackouts rollin', statewide. > > A little colder weather, > > And we all freeze together, > > Wishin' more plants were on the line. > > All the things I'm missin', > > Like lights and television, > > Are waiting 'til we can pay the price. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > > > Keep movin', movin', movin', > > Though they're disapprovin', > > Keep them rates a-movin', statewide. > > Don't try to understand 'em, > > Just raise, charge, and collect 'em. > > Soon we'll be livin' high and wide. > > My heart's calculatin', > > Nuclear plants will be waitin', > > Be waitin' at the end of my ride. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > STATEWIDE!!! 
Attached is a letter Marathon drafted to send to the top 100+ CA businesses in our database giving them info on our ""comprehensive solution.""  Rather than attach the solution document as is, I'd recommend a shorter, simplified version, plus an overview page that answers ""What does this do for: 
Following are the CEOs Ken is scheduled to meet with on Thursday to discuss= =20 our comprehensive solution: =20 SAN JOSE Scott McNealy - Chairman & CEO, Sun Microsystems Piper Cole - Vice President Global Public Policy, Sun Microsystems Mavis Toscano - Manager State & Local Government Affairs, Sun Microsystems Tony Ridder - Chairman, President & CEO, Knight-Ridder, Inc. Steve Kirsch - Founder & CEO, Propel Technologies Ken Oshman - Chairman, President & CEO, Echelon Corporation (also on Sun=01= ,s=20 Board) Fred Anderson - CFO, Apple Computer Dan Scheinman - Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs (and general=20 counsel), Cisco Michelle Mallory Peacock - State Government Affairs Manager, Cisco Casey Beyer - Vice President Government Relations, Exodus Communications LOS ANGELES Mayor Richard Riordan Eric Moses - Assistant Deputy Mayor Kevin Sharer - Chairman & CEO, Amgen Inc. Sarah Jensen - Vice President of Engineering and Operations, Amgen Inc. Ray Irani - Chairman & CEO, Occidental Petroleum Corp. Robert Day - Chairman, CEO & Managing Director, The TCW Group Bill Simon - Founder, William E. Simon & Sons Selim Zilkha - former CEO, Zilkha Energy Tom Patterson - Partner, Sidley & Austin Robert Sinnott - Senior Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, Kay= ne=20 Anderson Investment Management, LLC Arnold Schwarzenegger - President, Oak Productions Richard Ferry - Chairman, Korn/Ferry International Bruce Karatz - Chairman, President & CEO, Kaufman & Broad 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
fyi... 
Phil Angelides addressed Town Hall Los Angeles last week about the energy crisis.  Angelides was the first speaker in Town Hall's energy series. Upcoming speakers include John Bryson, Steve Letbetter, Loretta Lynch, and Ken Lay. Angelides made the following comments regarding the energy crisis: 1.  A sharp downturn in California will send the national economy into a slide 2.  California deregulation is a virus that will kill deregulation nationally. 3.  The power shortage is a problem of our own making. 4.  Californians must conserve power in record-setting levels. 5.  The Governor and Legislator must level with citizens about the energy crisis 6.  Utility rates must penalize consumption 7.  Californians must unite to reign in generators 8.  The Federal government should impose wholesale price caps 9.  If FERC will not fulfill its obligation to set fair and reasonable prices, or the price of electricity increases 50% more, Californians must fend for themselves, possibly through the formation of a buyers cartel with Oregon and Wash. or by seizing power plants. 
At least one CEO has sent the letter... 
fyi... editorial in today's LA Daily News: Lockyer lockdown Not wanting to be outdone by Gov. Gray Davis, California Attorney General Bill Lockyer recently tried his hand at Sacramento's new favorite game: demonizing power generators. Elaborating on his plan to file criminal charges against energy officials, Lockyer singled out Enron Corp. Chairman Kenneth Lay for imprudent remarks. ""I would love to personally escort Lay to an 8-by-10 cell,"" Lockyer told The Wall Street Journal, ""that he could share with a tattooed dude who says, 'Hi my name is Spike, honey.""' Get it? Spike would proceed to rape, maul and otherwise abuse Lay. Real funny, isn't it? Rape is widely considered commonplace in prison, and for good reason. Human Rights Watch estimates that as many 140,000 inmates have been raped in penitentiaries nationwide. In a recent study, the organization documented instances of sexual slavery taking place in prisons in six different states -- including California. That should be a serious concern for the state's top law-enforcement official -- not a laughing matter. Lockyer might have only been kidding, but his joke contains a tacit admission that rape is rampant in the state prison system. It suggests that he thinks this illegal and unconstitutional horror might, on occasion, serve as just punishment for some. Perhaps that's why prison officials -- in California and elsewhere -- have done so little to contain the problem. But their neglect comes at society's expense. Sexual abuse in American prisons hardens prisoners and makes them more dangerous upon their release. Rather than rehabilitating criminals, dangerous prisons reinforce their sense of lawlessness. We're willing to write off Lockyer's statement as merely thoughtless and unfunny, but we doubt that others will be quick to let him off so lightly. It's hard to imagine that a lawyer representing a raped inmate -- or the entire class of raped inmates -- would be quite so forgiving. In a lawsuit against the state corrections system, a quote from the attorney general making light of rampant sexual violence in state prisons could be damning. As the state's top attorney, Lockyer should know better than to serve up political rhetoric that could open up his clients -- the taxpayers -- to millions of dollars in legal penalties. His reckless words and callous attitude do little to inspire public confidence. 
I'm attaching the letter we drafted for the CEOs to send to Davis and the top six legislators: Jennifer Thome 05/29/2001 03:54 PM 
Rick: I have attached the first ""Solutions Document"" we developed several weeks ago in advance of a trip Ken was making to CA. Below is a message with links to the more recent documents Ken used. Please let me know if you have any questions. Jennifer 
On the call on Friday, Linda asked if we could distribute materials developed/used recently in California regarding the crisis and solutions to try to resolve it.  Attached are: A ""backgrounder"" provided to the business leaders that Ken Lay met with last week A power point presentation that is a ""higher level"" discussion of the more 
Attached is the latest Q&A on the residential turnback.  There are still questions to be answered (and if you have additional ones, pls send to me/Peggy asap), and we'll route an updated version. 
Latest versions of Q&A documents.  I am in the process of reviewing.  Plez let me know if you have any thoughts. Peggy 
Here is the latest version of the Q&A. There are two separate documents: one for the customer service representatives and one for the press.  These documents have been reviewed and approved by Vicki, outside council, and others.  I have sent the customer representative Q&A under separate cover to Diann Huddleson and Kevin Keeney, so there is no confusion with the media Q&A. 
we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the letter that was sent out Friday... 
Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we receive the first customer call. I will keep you all in the loop. Thanks! Peggy 
Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers will receive in the mail.  Thank you. 
See attached -- this came up in this morning's call and I asked for the=20 transcript.  We need to find out how many trades we did before the price=20 jumped back up.  kd 
fyi, info from Duke responding to charges made by ex-employees... 
Gary, I just sent this to your other e-mail address.  The Lt Gov. was in on this San Diego employee thing at the Dunn hearings, so this may come up. The credibility of these former SDG&E employees was very weak in the hearing and their allegations are absurd..... ________________________________________________________________________ To California news media covering electricity crisis: As a result of the false claims by three former San Diego Gas & Electric employees we have been in the news a bit lately. To add a bit of clarity to the situation I am sending you our release issued Friday that goes through each of the three claims and our response. To more fully understand the situation, please read the attached story that appeared in the LA Times yesterday. These reporters had the logs that were stolen from our South Bay Power Plant in Chula Vista more than two weeks ago.  We went through these log books line by line with these reporters. They also obtained confidential information from the Cal-ISO during these three days (January 16-18) that indicated that we were operating at their instruction when ramping up an down the units.  This is because the ISO purchased the ability to move the units up and down to help ensure the state's supply and demand is in balance.  This is a common practice and done every hour of every day by the ISO at plants that are able to provide this service. Its unfortunate that we were not allowed to respond to these charges when they were made formally in Senator Dunn's  committee hearing Friday (although the information was leaked way before the hearing by someone).  I understand that Governor Gray Davis is meeting with these former SDG&E employees tomorrow.  We had tried to personally meet with the governor last summer to offer very inexpensive long term power contracts and 2000 megawatts of peaking plants in 2001 and 2002 and were not able to. Tom Williams Director of Public Affairs Duke Energy North America Morro Bay, CA ______________________________________________________________________________ _____ Los Angeles Times via Dow Jones 
debate between me and Bustamonte This Thursday I will be a guest along with our favorite Lt Gov on California Capital Week.  I can't think of a worse time to have this, since Bustamonte is the point man on fhe three witnesses that participated in last Friday's public Senate Hearing on price manipulation.  So feed me your advice.  I am trying to take the high road, but I will warn you right now that if Bustamonte makes any of his outrageous statements in front of me, I will boldly correct him in no short order. gba 
I took a call from a reporter this morning about pricing info for May 9 (the reporter wants to make the point that the state overpaid for its contracts). I got the following info from Bob Badeer: May 9 -- prices at SP15 (location north of LA-south, but excluding LA) for July forward -- flat price, 7/24 5-year: $75/MWh 10-year: $63 today (6/28): 5-year: $42 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
At least one CEO has sent the letter... 
fyi... editorial in today's LA Daily News: Lockyer lockdown Not wanting to be outdone by Gov. Gray Davis, California Attorney General Bill Lockyer recently tried his hand at Sacramento's new favorite game: demonizing power generators. Elaborating on his plan to file criminal charges against energy officials, Lockyer singled out Enron Corp. Chairman Kenneth Lay for imprudent remarks. ""I would love to personally escort Lay to an 8-by-10 cell,"" Lockyer told The Wall Street Journal, ""that he could share with a tattooed dude who says, 'Hi my name is Spike, honey.""' Get it? Spike would proceed to rape, maul and otherwise abuse Lay. Real funny, isn't it? Rape is widely considered commonplace in prison, and for good reason. Human Rights Watch estimates that as many 140,000 inmates have been raped in penitentiaries nationwide. In a recent study, the organization documented instances of sexual slavery taking place in prisons in six different states -- including California. That should be a serious concern for the state's top law-enforcement official -- not a laughing matter. Lockyer might have only been kidding, but his joke contains a tacit admission that rape is rampant in the state prison system. It suggests that he thinks this illegal and unconstitutional horror might, on occasion, serve as just punishment for some. Perhaps that's why prison officials -- in California and elsewhere -- have done so little to contain the problem. But their neglect comes at society's expense. Sexual abuse in American prisons hardens prisoners and makes them more dangerous upon their release. Rather than rehabilitating criminals, dangerous prisons reinforce their sense of lawlessness. We're willing to write off Lockyer's statement as merely thoughtless and unfunny, but we doubt that others will be quick to let him off so lightly. It's hard to imagine that a lawyer representing a raped inmate -- or the entire class of raped inmates -- would be quite so forgiving. In a lawsuit against the state corrections system, a quote from the attorney general making light of rampant sexual violence in state prisons could be damning. As the state's top attorney, Lockyer should know better than to serve up political rhetoric that could open up his clients -- the taxpayers -- to millions of dollars in legal penalties. His reckless words and callous attitude do little to inspire public confidence. 
I'm attaching the letter we drafted for the CEOs to send to Davis and the top six legislators: Jennifer Thome 05/29/2001 03:54 PM 
Rick: I have attached the first ""Solutions Document"" we developed several weeks ago in advance of a trip Ken was making to CA. Below is a message with links to the more recent documents Ken used. Please let me know if you have any questions. Jennifer 
On the call on Friday, Linda asked if we could distribute materials developed/used recently in California regarding the crisis and solutions to try to resolve it.  Attached are: A ""backgrounder"" provided to the business leaders that Ken Lay met with last week A power point presentation that is a ""higher level"" discussion of the more 
Attached is the latest Q&A on the residential turnback.  There are still questions to be answered (and if you have additional ones, pls send to me/Peggy asap), and we'll route an updated version. 
Latest versions of Q&A documents.  I am in the process of reviewing.  Plez let me know if you have any thoughts. Peggy 
Here is the latest version of the Q&A. There are two separate documents: one for the customer service representatives and one for the press.  These documents have been reviewed and approved by Vicki, outside council, and others.  I have sent the customer representative Q&A under separate cover to Diann Huddleson and Kevin Keeney, so there is no confusion with the media Q&A. 
we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the letter that was sent out Friday... 
Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we receive the first customer call. I will keep you all in the loop. Thanks! Peggy 
Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers will receive in the mail.  Thank you. 
Access and asks for CPUC Support 
FYI, JDS Uniphase Corporation was one of the 150 California companies that received our direct access letter.  Please see the attached letter that they sent to the CPUC commissioners. 
FYI, EPMI responded to the CPA's RFP for new generation for up to 360 megawatts.  Additionally, Enron Wind responded as well with letters of intent for about 740 megawatts.  Following are the specifics of Enron Wind's response: Project Name	Project Size (MW)	Power Purchase Price/ Facility Purchase Price Christensen Lazar	33 MW (1.5s)	$48.90 per MWh / $17,100,000 Cottonwood	40 MW (1.5s)	$54.50 per MWh / $19,700,000 Green Power	16.5 MW (750s)	$53.70 per MWh / $11,000,000 Jacumba Rumorosa, MX	300 MW (1.5s)	$59.95 per MWh / $227,000,000 Rudnick	300 MW (1.5s) 	$49.90 per MWh / $139,000,000 Tehachapi Hill	51 MW (1.5s)	$59.60 per MWh / $27,100,000 TOTAL:  740.5 MW	TOTAL POWER PURCHASE PRICE:  $326.55 per MWh TOTAL PURCHASE PRICE: $440,900,000 
An attorney for Reliant sent a letter on behalf of five Southern California Edison creditors (Reliant, Mirant, Dynegy, Enron, Puget Sound Energy) to SCE today requesting a meeting to discuss the terms of a forbearance agreement.  The following is the statement we are using with the media: 
You're undoubtedly getting calls and questions about the recent media coverage.  Given the SEC inquiry and a slew of lawsuits, we are limited in what we can say.  However, we have compiled Frequently Asked Questions and posted them on the web, so feel free to direct people there:  www.enron.com/corp/pressroom/faq.html.  The most recent press releases are also posted on the web in the press room.  We are working on additional questions and answers that will be posted as soon as they are approved.  If you have specific questions, please let me know. Thanks! 
Access and asks for CPUC Support 
FYI, JDS Uniphase Corporation was one of the 150 California companies that received our direct access letter.  Please see the attached letter that they sent to the CPUC commissioners. 
fyi, info from Duke responding to charges made by ex-employees... 
Gary, I just sent this to your other e-mail address.  The Lt Gov. was in on this San Diego employee thing at the Dunn hearings, so this may come up. The credibility of these former SDG&E employees was very weak in the hearing and their allegations are absurd..... ________________________________________________________________________ To California news media covering electricity crisis: As a result of the false claims by three former San Diego Gas & Electric employees we have been in the news a bit lately. To add a bit of clarity to the situation I am sending you our release issued Friday that goes through each of the three claims and our response. To more fully understand the situation, please read the attached story that appeared in the LA Times yesterday. These reporters had the logs that were stolen from our South Bay Power Plant in Chula Vista more than two weeks ago.  We went through these log books line by line with these reporters. They also obtained confidential information from the Cal-ISO during these three days (January 16-18) that indicated that we were operating at their instruction when ramping up an down the units.  This is because the ISO purchased the ability to move the units up and down to help ensure the state's supply and demand is in balance.  This is a common practice and done every hour of every day by the ISO at plants that are able to provide this service. Its unfortunate that we were not allowed to respond to these charges when they were made formally in Senator Dunn's  committee hearing Friday (although the information was leaked way before the hearing by someone).  I understand that Governor Gray Davis is meeting with these former SDG&E employees tomorrow.  We had tried to personally meet with the governor last summer to offer very inexpensive long term power contracts and 2000 megawatts of peaking plants in 2001 and 2002 and were not able to. Tom Williams Director of Public Affairs Duke Energy North America Morro Bay, CA ______________________________________________________________________________ _____ Los Angeles Times via Dow Jones 
debate between me and Bustamonte This Thursday I will be a guest along with our favorite Lt Gov on California Capital Week.  I can't think of a worse time to have this, since Bustamonte is the point man on fhe three witnesses that participated in last Friday's public Senate Hearing on price manipulation.  So feed me your advice.  I am trying to take the high road, but I will warn you right now that if Bustamonte makes any of his outrageous statements in front of me, I will boldly correct him in no short order. gba 
I took a call from a reporter this morning about pricing info for May 9 (the reporter wants to make the point that the state overpaid for its contracts). I got the following info from Bob Badeer: May 9 -- prices at SP15 (location north of LA-south, but excluding LA) for July forward -- flat price, 7/24 5-year: $75/MWh 10-year: $63 today (6/28): 5-year: $42 
See attached -- this came up in this morning's call and I asked for the=20 transcript.  We need to find out how many trades we did before the price=20 jumped back up.  kd 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are getting 
This is the Los Angeles Times article Mark has been working on... California; Metro Desk Electricity Cost Data Spread the Blame Power: Many suppliers charged more than the firms that Davis has pilloried, records show. RICH CONNELL; ROBERT J. LOPEZ; DOUG SMITH TIMES STAFF WRITERS 07/10/2001 Los Angeles Times Home Edition B-1 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company SACRAMENTO -- California's energy meltdown involves a far more diverse group of wholesale electricity merchants than suggested by Gov. Gray Davis, who has aggressively blamed a handful of Texas companies, state records show. During the first three months of this year--one of the worst stretches of power shortages during the crisis--an assortment of public and private entities charged the state prices averaging well above some of those paid to Texas firms, according to documents released to The Times on Monday by the Department of Water Resources, which now buys power for California. Among those setting and collecting some of the highest average prices per megawatt-hour were a Canadian public utility, a subsidiary of San Diego Gas & Electric's parent company, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the report shows. Their average prices ranged from $498 a megawatt-hour charged by Powerex, the trading arm of British Columbia's BC Hydro, to $292 an hour by the DWP. In fact, some of the biggest private power companies singled out for criticism by Davis and other state officials--Dynegy Inc., Duke Energy and Mirant--charged less than the average prices the state paid for the period. Those companies' average prices ranged from $146 to $240 per megawatt-hour, according to an analysis of the documents. The figures cover the various types of spot and longer-term power purchased by the state during three months that included rolling blackouts and more than a month of razor-thin reserves, leading to continuous power emergencies. Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor has directed his sharpest barbs at private out-of-state generators because, in general, they have reaped the highest profits over the longest period. ""You have to look at the whole picture,"" Maviglio said. ""The governor was expressing his displeasure with the arrogance of the generators who wear cowboy hats,"" he said. ""Their profits were 100% to 400% above last year. . . . Just because there are other entities who are charging us more [per megawatt-hour] doesn't change the fact that we are 
Political  Philosophies: Explained in Simple ""Two-Cow"" Terms with an Update for the  state of California Socialism: You have two cows. You keep one, but  must give the other to your neighbor. Communism: You have two cows.  The government takes both and provides you with milk. Fascism: You  have two cows. The government takes both and sells you the  milk. Bureaucracy: You have two cows. The government takes them,  shoots one, milks the other, pays you for the milk, and then pours it down  the drain. Dictatorship: You have two cows. The government takes both,  then shoots you. Capitalism: You have two cows. You sell one and buy a  bull. Democracy: You have two cows. The government taxes you to the  point that you must sell them both to support a man in a foreign country who  has only one cow, which was a gift from your own  government. Corporation: You have two cows. You lay one off, force the  other to produce the milk of four cows, then act surprised when it drops  dead. California: You have two cows. The state tells you how to milk  your cows, when to milk your cows, how much to milk your cows and the most  that you can charge for the milk. You go broke and sell the cows. The state  calls you 
It's unfortunate that the state's largest utility was forced to turn to the courts for a resolution.  Solutions to the state's energy crisis have been available for months that would have avoided this scenario, but Gov. Davis and the Legislature lacked the bold leadership to take swift, decisive action. Enron's exposure to PG&E will not have any material effect on earnings or on our financial condition. If pressed:  Any further comment would be speculative, as we have not yet 
this is funny... 
> > Rollin', rollin', rollin', > > Though the state is golden, > > Keep them blackouts rollin', statewide. > > A little colder weather, > > And we all freeze together, > > Wishin' more plants were on the line. > > All the things I'm missin', > > Like lights and television, > > Are waiting 'til we can pay the price. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > > > Keep movin', movin', movin', > > Though they're disapprovin', > > Keep them rates a-movin', statewide. > > Don't try to understand 'em, > > Just raise, charge, and collect 'em. > > Soon we'll be livin' high and wide. > > My heart's calculatin', > > Nuclear plants will be waitin', > > Be waitin' at the end of my ride. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > STATEWIDE!!! 
Attached is a letter Marathon drafted to send to the top 100+ CA businesses in our database giving them info on our ""comprehensive solution.""  Rather than attach the solution document as is, I'd recommend a shorter, simplified version, plus an overview page that answers ""What does this do for: 
Following are the CEOs Ken is scheduled to meet with on Thursday to discuss= =20 our comprehensive solution: =20 SAN JOSE Scott McNealy - Chairman & CEO, Sun Microsystems Piper Cole - Vice President Global Public Policy, Sun Microsystems Mavis Toscano - Manager State & Local Government Affairs, Sun Microsystems Tony Ridder - Chairman, President & CEO, Knight-Ridder, Inc. Steve Kirsch - Founder & CEO, Propel Technologies Ken Oshman - Chairman, President & CEO, Echelon Corporation (also on Sun=01= ,s=20 Board) Fred Anderson - CFO, Apple Computer Dan Scheinman - Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs (and general=20 counsel), Cisco Michelle Mallory Peacock - State Government Affairs Manager, Cisco Casey Beyer - Vice President Government Relations, Exodus Communications LOS ANGELES Mayor Richard Riordan Eric Moses - Assistant Deputy Mayor Kevin Sharer - Chairman & CEO, Amgen Inc. Sarah Jensen - Vice President of Engineering and Operations, Amgen Inc. Ray Irani - Chairman & CEO, Occidental Petroleum Corp. Robert Day - Chairman, CEO & Managing Director, The TCW Group Bill Simon - Founder, William E. Simon & Sons Selim Zilkha - former CEO, Zilkha Energy Tom Patterson - Partner, Sidley & Austin Robert Sinnott - Senior Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, Kay= ne=20 Anderson Investment Management, LLC Arnold Schwarzenegger - President, Oak Productions Richard Ferry - Chairman, Korn/Ferry International Bruce Karatz - Chairman, President & CEO, Kaufman & Broad 
The CEO meetings on Thursday went very well, and we had great turnout. Attached is a final list of who Ken met with and a list of who we invited. The takeaway from both meetings was to draft a letter outlining our five-point solution proposal, and the CEOs would be willing to sign it and send to the governor and legislators.  Jeff and I drafted the letter and will finalize and send it to the CEOs on Monday.  I also think we ought to consider placing full-page ads with the letter and enlisting some of the CEOs to attend editorial boards.  At this point, it's important to keep Enron out of the picture.  We'll route the letter when it's finalized.  kd 
fyi... 
Phil Angelides addressed Town Hall Los Angeles last week about the energy crisis.  Angelides was the first speaker in Town Hall's energy series. Upcoming speakers include John Bryson, Steve Letbetter, Loretta Lynch, and Ken Lay. Angelides made the following comments regarding the energy crisis: 1.  A sharp downturn in California will send the national economy into a slide 2.  California deregulation is a virus that will kill deregulation nationally. 3.  The power shortage is a problem of our own making. 4.  Californians must conserve power in record-setting levels. 5.  The Governor and Legislator must level with citizens about the energy crisis 6.  Utility rates must penalize consumption 7.  Californians must unite to reign in generators 8.  The Federal government should impose wholesale price caps 9.  If FERC will not fulfill its obligation to set fair and reasonable prices, or the price of electricity increases 50% more, Californians must fend for themselves, possibly through the formation of a buyers cartel with Oregon and Wash. or by seizing power plants. 
At least one CEO has sent the letter... 
fyi... editorial in today's LA Daily News: Lockyer lockdown Not wanting to be outdone by Gov. Gray Davis, California Attorney General Bill Lockyer recently tried his hand at Sacramento's new favorite game: demonizing power generators. Elaborating on his plan to file criminal charges against energy officials, Lockyer singled out Enron Corp. Chairman Kenneth Lay for imprudent remarks. ""I would love to personally escort Lay to an 8-by-10 cell,"" Lockyer told The Wall Street Journal, ""that he could share with a tattooed dude who says, 'Hi my name is Spike, honey.""' Get it? Spike would proceed to rape, maul and otherwise abuse Lay. Real funny, isn't it? Rape is widely considered commonplace in prison, and for good reason. Human Rights Watch estimates that as many 140,000 inmates have been raped in penitentiaries nationwide. In a recent study, the organization documented instances of sexual slavery taking place in prisons in six different states -- including California. That should be a serious concern for the state's top law-enforcement official -- not a laughing matter. Lockyer might have only been kidding, but his joke contains a tacit admission that rape is rampant in the state prison system. It suggests that he thinks this illegal and unconstitutional horror might, on occasion, serve as just punishment for some. Perhaps that's why prison officials -- in California and elsewhere -- have done so little to contain the problem. But their neglect comes at society's expense. Sexual abuse in American prisons hardens prisoners and makes them more dangerous upon their release. Rather than rehabilitating criminals, dangerous prisons reinforce their sense of lawlessness. We're willing to write off Lockyer's statement as merely thoughtless and unfunny, but we doubt that others will be quick to let him off so lightly. It's hard to imagine that a lawyer representing a raped inmate -- or the entire class of raped inmates -- would be quite so forgiving. In a lawsuit against the state corrections system, a quote from the attorney general making light of rampant sexual violence in state prisons could be damning. As the state's top attorney, Lockyer should know better than to serve up political rhetoric that could open up his clients -- the taxpayers -- to millions of dollars in legal penalties. His reckless words and callous attitude do little to inspire public confidence. 
Attached is the latest Q&A on the residential turnback.  There are still questions to be answered (and if you have additional ones, pls send to me/Peggy asap), and we'll route an updated version. 
Latest versions of Q&A documents.  I am in the process of reviewing.  Plez let me know if you have any thoughts. Peggy 
Here is the latest version of the Q&A. There are two separate documents: one for the customer service representatives and one for the press.  These documents have been reviewed and approved by Vicki, outside council, and others.  I have sent the customer representative Q&A under separate cover to Diann Huddleson and Kevin Keeney, so there is no confusion with the media Q&A. 
we're still debating whether to issue a press release, but this is the letter that was sent out Friday... 
Final letter.  We will hear from our customer service team as soon as we receive the first customer call. I will keep you all in the loop. Thanks! Peggy 
Diann received the word from Marty to begin the de-dasr-ing process within the next few weeks.  Thus, we changed the last sentence of the second paragraph to reflect that.  For everyone's records, this is the final, final copy that received the necessary approvals and that our customers will receive in the mail.  Thank you. 
Political  Philosophies: Explained in Simple ""Two-Cow"" Terms with an Update for the  state of California Socialism: You have two cows. You keep one, but  must give the other to your neighbor. Communism: You have two cows.  The government takes both and provides you with milk. Fascism: You  have two cows. The government takes both and sells you the  milk. Bureaucracy: You have two cows. The government takes them,  shoots one, milks the other, pays you for the milk, and then pours it down  the drain. Dictatorship: You have two cows. The government takes both,  then shoots you. Capitalism: You have two cows. You sell one and buy a  bull. Democracy: You have two cows. The government taxes you to the  point that you must sell them both to support a man in a foreign country who  has only one cow, which was a gift from your own  government. Corporation: You have two cows. You lay one off, force the  other to produce the milk of four cows, then act surprised when it drops  dead. California: You have two cows. The state tells you how to milk  your cows, when to milk your cows, how much to milk your cows and the most  that you can charge for the milk. You go broke and sell the cows. The state  calls you 
this is funny... 
> > Rollin', rollin', rollin', > > Though the state is golden, > > Keep them blackouts rollin', statewide. > > A little colder weather, > > And we all freeze together, > > Wishin' more plants were on the line. > > All the things I'm missin', > > Like lights and television, > > Are waiting 'til we can pay the price. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > > > Keep movin', movin', movin', > > Though they're disapprovin', > > Keep them rates a-movin', statewide. > > Don't try to understand 'em, > > Just raise, charge, and collect 'em. > > Soon we'll be livin' high and wide. > > My heart's calculatin', > > Nuclear plants will be waitin', > > Be waitin' at the end of my ride. > > > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, > > Shut 'em down, block 'em out, > > Turn 'em on, turn 'em off, statewide! > > Brown 'em out, black 'em out, > > Charge 'em more, give 'em less, > > Let the pols fix the mess, statewide! > > STATEWIDE!!! 
As you know, the SEC is conducting an informal inquiry into related party transactions Enron did with LJM.  We are cooperating fully and are providing the information the SEC has requested.  However, we have learned today that the SEC is extremely sensitive about us using their inquiry as a ""shield"" to not answer certain questions -- i.e. ""I can't answer that because of a pending SEC inquiry.""  As a result, we have been advised that we should not make any comment about the SEC inquiry in any context.  This extends beyond media and includes any interactions with customers, regulators, etc.  Please forward this message on to anyone in your group who this might impact.  Call me if you have any questions. Thank you. 
Following are the CEOs Ken is scheduled to meet with on Thursday to discuss= =20 our comprehensive solution: =20 SAN JOSE Scott McNealy - Chairman & CEO, Sun Microsystems Piper Cole - Vice President Global Public Policy, Sun Microsystems Mavis Toscano - Manager State & Local Government Affairs, Sun Microsystems Tony Ridder - Chairman, President & CEO, Knight-Ridder, Inc. Steve Kirsch - Founder & CEO, Propel Technologies Ken Oshman - Chairman, President & CEO, Echelon Corporation (also on Sun=01= ,s=20 Board) Fred Anderson - CFO, Apple Computer Dan Scheinman - Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs (and general=20 counsel), Cisco Michelle Mallory Peacock - State Government Affairs Manager, Cisco Casey Beyer - Vice President Government Relations, Exodus Communications LOS ANGELES Mayor Richard Riordan Eric Moses - Assistant Deputy Mayor Kevin Sharer - Chairman & CEO, Amgen Inc. Sarah Jensen - Vice President of Engineering and Operations, Amgen Inc. Ray Irani - Chairman & CEO, Occidental Petroleum Corp. Robert Day - Chairman, CEO & Managing Director, The TCW Group Bill Simon - Founder, William E. Simon & Sons Selim Zilkha - former CEO, Zilkha Energy Tom Patterson - Partner, Sidley & Austin Robert Sinnott - Senior Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, Kay= ne=20 Anderson Investment Management, LLC Arnold Schwarzenegger - President, Oak Productions Richard Ferry - Chairman, Korn/Ferry International Bruce Karatz - Chairman, President & CEO, Kaufman & Broad 
fyi... 
Phil Angelides addressed Town Hall Los Angeles last week about the energy crisis.  Angelides was the first speaker in Town Hall's energy series. Upcoming speakers include John Bryson, Steve Letbetter, Loretta Lynch, and Ken Lay. Angelides made the following comments regarding the energy crisis: 1.  A sharp downturn in California will send the national economy into a slide 2.  California deregulation is a virus that will kill deregulation nationally. 3.  The power shortage is a problem of our own making. 4.  Californians must conserve power in record-setting levels. 5.  The Governor and Legislator must level with citizens about the energy crisis 6.  Utility rates must penalize consumption 7.  Californians must unite to reign in generators 8.  The Federal government should impose wholesale price caps 9.  If FERC will not fulfill its obligation to set fair and reasonable prices, or the price of electricity increases 50% more, Californians must fend for themselves, possibly through the formation of a buyers cartel with Oregon and Wash. or by seizing power plants. 
Attached is a letter Marathon drafted to send to the top 100+ CA businesses in our database giving them info on our ""comprehensive solution.""  Rather than attach the solution document as is, I'd recommend a shorter, simplified version, plus an overview page that answers ""What does this do for: 
It's unfortunate that the state's largest utility was forced to turn to the courts for a resolution.  Solutions to the state's energy crisis have been available for months that would have avoided this scenario, but Gov. Davis and the Legislature lacked the bold leadership to take swift, decisive action. Enron's exposure to PG&E will not have any material effect on earnings or on our financial condition. If pressed:  Any further comment would be speculative, as we have not yet 
Jeff -- You are scheduled to appear on the ""News Hour with Jim Lehrer"" this afternoon during the 5 p.m. show to talk about how successful companies recruit college graduates.  Ray Suarez will be the substitute anchor for Jim Lehrer.  The recruiting segment, for which you are one of four panelists, will run approximately 12 to 14 minutes, probably in the first half of the one-hour show.  The other panelists are: Marilyn Mackes, executive director of the National Association of Colleges and Employers (Philadelphia) Ken Ramberg, CEO and co-founder of Jobtrack.com, the portal most universities use to post jobs for students and graduates (Los Angeles) Bill Carson, director of career services for Morgan State University (Baltimore) There will be a three-minute background piece filmed at a recent college graduation in Portland that will air prior to the roundtable discussion. Once that airs, the anchor will ask questions of each of the panelists and start a discussion that will generally follow the format of the pre-interview you did on Wednesday.  Don't worry about keeping your comments short.  The show wants to encourage an in-depth discussion about recruiting.   If another panelist makes a comment that you agree or disagree with, feel free to jump in and add your opinion. We will be set up in the Board room, and the show has asked that you be ready by 4:45 p.m.  The show airs live at 5 p.m., and the segment should air in the first half of the show. Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you. 
The attached press release announcing that our interstate pipelines will begin offering capacity on EnronOnline is scheduled to be issued on Monday, June 12.  If you have any questions or comments, please let me know by 8 a.m. Monday. Thank you. Karen x39757 