David, I think this point is moot for the time being because (as of last Tuesday) we are not dealing with Bidder D. I think it is ok legally to go this way -- although there is potential liability under the WARN Act (the plant closing law).  We probably can schedule around that exposure, though, by giving everyone who possibly may be affected 60 days' notice. Practically, however, this would not be my favorite approach.  I'd prefer it if we could have the ability to compete for top performers, but we should be able to manage that by working through the persons who we identify and present for possible hiring by the buyer. I would like more information about what is meant by ""ENA does not interfere with"" the offers made by the buyer.  Does that mean no counteroffers? To answer the question of whether we can bind all of Enron, I would say that it is unlikely, unless we want to ask.  It is easier to commit only the wholesale group, rather than ask Corp., EES, Broadband, etc.  whether they will abide by the agreement, so I would recommend limiting it to that group, if possible.  We may be able to include the pipelines, given that they have been involved in this transaction. Let me know if you have any questions. Michelle David Oxley 11/26/2000 06:50 PM 
What's your view? 
With respect to bidder D we are being asked not to compete with them for those employees they would like to hire.  i.e. we have to sever them and bidder D gets to hire them if they want to (in which case the severed employees get no severance payment if they turn DFS down).  I would like to propose something like the following: 1.  We provide Bidder D with a list of all Designated Employees, their position, historical compensation. 2.  Bidder D covenants to make offers to ___% of certain pools of Designated Employees e.g. commercial, operations, engineering, trading, etc. 3.  Bidder D covenants to make offers that will not allow Designated Employees to successfully claim constructive dismissal under our severance plan. 4.  Between signing and closing, Bidder D provide us with a list of Offerees - Designated Employees to whom Bidder D intends to make offers of employment. 5.  ENA covenants that we will not interfere with Bidder D's offers (can we bind all of Enron?). 6.  If an Offeree turns down the offer (in writing) then ENA is free to continue to employee Offeree.  However, if we do not continue to employ the Offeree, no   severance is owed. The intent of the above is to encourage Offerees to take the offers - they give up severance rights if they don't - but provide us the opportunity to continue to employee anyone who is bold enough to turn it down and that we want to keep.  Also it caps our severance obligation by requiring Bidder D to specify how many offers must be made.  Bidder D is certain to want more than this but I am uncomfortable saying we can't continue to employee any of the Offerees. Please advise. 
Was Clonch deposed?  What did he say?   Michelle ""Tim C. Carrico"" <tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com> on 11/28/2000 07:15:09 AM 
Michelle, Yesterday, counsel for Richard Clonch called, requesting January dates for the Enron depositions.  He provided me with the following dates possible dates; 1/3, 1/4, 1/5, 1/8, 1/9, 1/10, 1/11, 1/12, 1/22, 1/23, 1/24, 1/25, 1/26. I told him that I would forward these dates to Enron.  I will send counsel for Richard Clonch availability dates for Enron Officials as soon as I hear from you. Thanks Tim C. Carrico Spilman Thomas & Battle, PLLC email: tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com phone:             (304)-340-3856 cell phone:       (304)-549-2681 fax:                  (304)-340-3801 address:           300 Kanawha Blvd., East Charleston, W.Va. 25301 
I understand that Nigel is working this one.  MHC David Oxley 12/12/2000 01:23 PM 
URGGGHHH! 
please handle for me.  thanks.  mhc 
You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcapps.corp.enron.com/srrs/auth/emailLink.asp?ID=000000000010092&Page= Approval to review and act upon this request. Request ID          : 000000000010092 Request Create Date : 12/12/00 3:00:54 PM Requested For       : diane.goode@enron.com Resource Name       : Unlisted Application/Software Resource Type       : Applications 
please handle.  thanks.  mhc 
You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcapps.corp.enron.com/srrs/auth/emailLink.asp?ID=000000000010092&Page= Approval to review and act upon this request. Request ID          : 000000000010092 Request Create Date : 12/12/00 3:00:54 PM Requested For       : diane.goode@enron.com Resource Name       : VPN Resource Type       : Applications 
please handle for me.  thanks. mhc 
You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcapps.corp.enron.com/srrs/auth/emailLink.asp?ID=000000000010092&Page= Approval to review and act upon this request. Request ID          : 000000000010092 Request Create Date : 12/12/00 3:00:54 PM Requested For       : diane.goode@enron.com Resource Name       : Westlaw Resource Type       : Applications 
please handle for me.  thanks.  mhc 
You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcapps.corp.enron.com/srrs/auth/emailLink.asp?ID=000000000010092&Page= Approval to review and act upon this request. Request ID          : 000000000010092 Request Create Date : 12/12/00 3:00:54 PM Requested For       : diane.goode@enron.com Resource Name       : Lexis Nexis Research - Legal Resource Type       : Applications 
I haven't heard anything, but I would suggest that you have them stand down for the meantime.  Michelle ""Dean Crawford"" <dcrawford@davis.ca> on 12/12/2000 03:04:53 PM 
Michelle, ? Further to my voicemail, should we advise the actuaries to  cease their due diligence work on the Celgar pension plans? They have just  called me to advise about some further liabilities under the supplementary plan  for non-union employees. Thanks. 
Richard, My thought is that the first sentence is ok, but not the second, and Bonnie is conveying that to McConville's lawyer.  MHC 
McConville's counsel has asked us for language in addition to a mere representation that the Enron Milford certificate of incorporation applies to ENA to the effect that we will cooperate or at least not unreasonably oppose Kevin's making a claim for indemnification should the situation arise.  I have drafted language along the lines of what I think he is asking for.  Is this something that we would consider agreeing to? Bonnie J. White Enron Litigation Unit 1400 Smith St., Suite 4824 Houston, TX  77002 Ph:  (713) 853-7244 Fax: (713) 853-6576 
Hello, everyone. No need to work on Canary any more -- it is off.  I would suggest that you save your work in the event that it is revived, but it doesn't look like it is going to happen any time soon. 
My understanding is that the deal is dead -- stop the presses. Thanks for all of your help on this -- I appreciated your efforts and explanations.  Perhaps we will work together again in the future. Michelle ""Dean Crawford"" <dcrawford@davis.ca> on 12/12/2000 03:04:53 PM 
Michelle, ? Further to my voicemail, should we advise the actuaries to  cease their due diligence work on the Celgar pension plans? They have just  called me to advise about some further liabilities under the supplementary plan  for non-union employees. Thanks. 
Molly, Let's schedule interviews with Bechel with Mark Haedicke, Elizabeth Sager, Sheila Tweed, Dan Lyons, and Lisa Mellencamp. Thanks a lot. 
Thanks, Dan.  We will work to accommodate your schedule. Daniel Reck 11/28/2000 04:31 PM 
I'm out the first week of January, but have nothing else scheduled.  I reserve the right to reschedule anything at anytime if there is a commercial need. --Dan Michelle Cash 11/28/2000 03:50 PM 
Hello, everyone.  Please let me know which of these dates works best for you.  It would be most helpful if you give me a range of available dates for both preparation and the deposition itself.  That way, I can find overlapping dates on which you all are available. Thanks a lot. Michelle 
Michelle, Yesterday, counsel for Richard Clonch called, requesting January dates for the Enron depositions.  He provided me with the following dates possible dates; 1/3, 1/4, 1/5, 1/8, 1/9, 1/10, 1/11, 1/12, 1/22, 1/23, 1/24, 1/25, 1/26. I told him that I would forward these dates to Enron.  I will send counsel for Richard Clonch availability dates for Enron Officials as soon as I hear from you. Thanks Tim C. Carrico Spilman Thomas & Battle, PLLC email: tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com phone:             (304)-340-3856 cell phone:       (304)-549-2681 fax:                  (304)-340-3801 address:           300 Kanawha Blvd., East Charleston, W.Va. 25301 
__________________ All: A slight change in the time.  We will meet on Thursday at 11:30.  The conference room is EB15C1. 
Thanks, Felicia.  The same information appeared in today's DLR.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
__________________ The Meeting re: Crane Transition Team Kick-Off will take place at: 
__________________ Monday, February 19, is an Enron holiday; therefore, the Legal Committee meeting will be held on Tuesday, February 20, in EB38C2. Thank you. Janette Elbertson Enron North America Corp. Legal Department - EB3326 Telephone:  (713) 853-7906 Fax:  (713) 646-2600 
Peter, I learned yesterday for the first time about Project Canary, which involves the purchase of an asset that employs 400 employees and also has a unionized workforce.  I understand that we are in the second round, and that there is a deadline of 12/15. Peter, we have discussed on numerous occasions the need for you to get me involved early whenever there are transactions involving personnel issues. You haven't involved me in this deal -- I learned about the fact that there are employees and unions from my clients in HR.  That makes me and the legal department look bad and also does not allow me to provide the best service for Enron. Please provide me with information about this deal asap.  And, I repeat my request to get me involved earlier on future deals. Thank you. 
__________________ MEETING CONFIRMATION: The following meeting has been scheduled: DATE:   Friday, March 2 TIME:   3:00 pm (meeting should last approx 1 1/2 hours) PLACE:  EB 4741 ATTENDEES: Felecia Acevedo Sharon Butcher Michelle Cash Steve Kean Brian Schaffer Kriste Sullivan If you have any questions, please call me at 3-1808. 
__________________ Please plan to attend a meeting this afternoon, February 26, 2001.  Details as follows: 
__________________ The Enron Wholesale Services 2001 Legal Conference will be held on Thursday afternoon and Friday, October 11 - 12, 2001 at the Woodlands Resort and Conference Center north of Houston. 
Thanks for the info.  I just need simple, basic frames.  No decorations or anything.  That way, they can go anywhere, and aren't specific to a decor, theme, time of year, etc.  So, painted wood or black resin probably are the best.  I could use 5x7"" the most. Trey is going to get Playstation 2 once they become available, so you may want to find a game for the new machine.  Also, since it has a DVD player attached, he will need DVDs to play on it.  I already got him Being John Malkovich and the Grinch, but he has no others. We are looking forward to your visit.  Trey, Cameron and I are going to the Nutcracker ballet on the 26th.  Do you and Marianne want to go?  I am sure that Kay would love to watch Madison, and I would think that we still could get tickets if you are interested.  Let me know. See you later. Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 11/28/2000 08:45:00 PM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Would you let me know which you choose?  I may need some of them as a backup!  Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 10/23/2000 10:47:10 AM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Hi, Brooks. He wants the newest Lyle Lovett album -- the soundtrack to Dr. T and the Women.  Also, he is getting a Playstation II from me for his birthday (they don't come out until this week, so he doesn't have it yet), so you could find him a game for the new system.  He has said that he wants a new clock radio, with AM/FM (I don't think he wants CD/tape player on it), with battery backup -- Sony would be best.  Also, he always wears short-sleeved Polo shirts, size XL.  He prefers basics, in solid colors such as white (he never can have enough of those), navy, khaki, or light blue. Let me know if you need any other suggestions. We are looking forward to your visit, especially Cameron.  He always is talking about how Santa is going to bring presents for him and Madison! Take care, and say ""hi"" to Marianne. Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 10/20/2000 09:08:25 AM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Michelle, Can you give me any ideas regarding birthday and x-mas presents for the man who has everything? Hope all is well there. Brooks 
Here are details on one search firm for legal.  thanks.  mhc 
Here is the name of the search firm.  Michelle ' 
Richard, Wayne and Roberts 
Fashion Show Benefiting the March of Dimes 
__________________ Michelle/Kalen: Enron has purchased a table to the 2001 Houston Chronicle Best Dressed Luncheon & Neiman Marcus Fashion Show benefiting the March of Dimes.  The luncheon will be held on Wednesday, April 11 at the Westin Galleria.  The reception begins at 11:30 a.m., and the actual luncheon starts promptly at 12:00 noon.  Cindy would like you be her guest at Enron's table.  Please let me know at your earliest convenience if you will be able to attend. Thanks. 
__________________ I have set up a meeting with Carol for Wednesday April 11 @ 9:00. 
Kathy, here is Ann Park's due diligence template for Canada, which should be of use in Project Canary.  Michelle 
t:  Please print for me.  Thanks a lot! Michelle 
Attached is my due diligence template for Canada.  Please feel free to use those parts of it you feel appropriate.  Michelle, if I do not hear back I will assume the deal team has decided to have the counsel handle this in my place.  Please be sure to let Patrick Wade know.  If I can be of any other assistance please let me know. 
__________________ Hi everyone: There will be an HR Leadership Team Meeting on Tuesday, June 5, 8:30 AM - 9:30 AM, EB16C1. This will be a Video Conference Meeting with London. Please plan to attend. Gerry will send an agenda tomorrow. Thanks, Hilda 
Tim, was it accepted by the court?  Michelle ""Tim C. Carrico"" <tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com> on 11/29/2000 12:55:47 PM 
Michelle, Today, I faxed you a copy of the Plaintiff's Second Amended Complaint.  I am in the process of creating Enron's answer based on my conversations with McClellan, Reck, McQuade.  I need to ask you a couple of questions regarding the answer;  Please call me at your earliest possible convenience. Tim C. Carrico Spilman Thomas & Battle, PLLC email: tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com phone:             (304)-340-3856 cell phone:       (304)-549-2681 fax:                  (304)-340-3801 address:           300 Kanawha Blvd., East Charleston, W.Va. 25301 
Mark, As you requested, below is a list of my major accomplishments for the year. 1. Resolution/management of pre-litigation and litigation matters, including:  Dwayne Hart/Utilicorp; Satterwhite; Barrington; Race/Statoil; Ross Malme; Rick Blandford; West Boettcher; Anita Suson; Charlie Weymms; Steven Cuneo; others. 2.  Efficient management of drafting, negotiating, revising, and completing several types of contracts in numerous different jurisdictions (e.g., almost 200 employment agreements, 35 separation agreements, and 30 consulting services agreements). 3. Lead attorney on Project One (which involves issues surrounding the OFCCP's ""glass ceiling"" audit of ENA and all of Enron). 4. Labor and employment transactional support, including:  East Coast Power, Ecogas, CGas, Project Hurricane, Columbia, Project Grizzly, Las Vegas Cogen, and other acquisitions that involve the transfer or hiring of personnel. Many of these transactions require extensive legal support relating to personnel matters after closing. 5. Legal support on labor (union) matters, including successful closing of project labor agreements for the construction of generation assets (e.g., Pittsburg, 2000 peakers, Pastoria), Unfair Labor Practice matters, training on union-related issues in M&A's. Let me know if you need any more information, and thanks for your support! 
Greg, we live very close to you!  We have to get together soon.  I have sent you an invitation to our New Year's Day party, and I hope you can come. By the way, congrats on all the success and good press on Fusion.  It is well deserved! Merry Christmas! Michelle ""Phillips, Gregory L (Legal)"" <Gregory.Phillips@COMPAQ.com> on 12/16/99 10:32:00 AM 
Michelle: I just got your voicemail and I was on a conference call.  However, I'm running late to another meeting.  I will try to call you later today.  I hope that the family is doing well and that you guys are having a wonderful Holiday Season.  Here's our information: Greg, Cynthia and Sidney Phillips 2711 S. Glen Haven Blvd. Houston, TX 77025 713-660-7880 I will talk to you later. GLP 
Gary, would you please send me by email the telecommuting policy and the agreement for telecommuters? Thanks a lot. 
data from EU countries to the USA 
Jeff, here is information from Jon Chapman.  Let's discuss when you have a chance to review it.  Michelle ----------------- Michelle, Further to our discussion on Tuesday , I am very happy to proceed on the basis of Jeff Dodd's draft Agreement ( and draft Data Protection Policy) . Can you ask him to prepare a final version and let us have it , please. The EU ""Data Exporter"" entities are as follows:- UK Enron Europe Limited (also Italy ) Enron Power Operations Limited Enron Teesside Operations Limited Enron Direct Limited Enron Engineering Services Caxios Limited Norway and Sweden Enron Capital & Trade Resources International Corp. Germany Enron Energie GmbH Finland Enron Finland Energy OY Spain Enron Espana Energia S.L. Note that Norway is not a member of the EU but , as a member of the European Economic Area , should be treated as an EU member for these purposes. I look forward to hearing from you. Thanks. Jon 
Twanda, would you please save these to my form directory and print them out for me?  Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
See below two documents: 
LeAnne, Please attach the forms for telecummuting that I asked you to modify recently and send them to Michelle Cash. Thanks, Gary 
Gary, would you please send me by email the telecommuting policy and the agreement for telecommuters? Thanks a lot. Michelle 
Twanda, please make this a form and save.  Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
Patrick, Attached is our standard HR due diligence list.  See you tomorrow. Thank you, Dee 
Danny, I received another call from the lawyers interested in learning 
I've asked them for dates, and I've got them from 2 of them.  Let me bug them again early next week.  Tell him to chill out -- his client's deposition has been scheduled and rescheduled too many times to count. ""Tim C. Carrico"" <tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com> on 11/30/2000 03:49:46 PM 
Michelle, Clonch's deposition is going to take place this Sunday at Spilman Thomas & Battle at 9:00 a.m.  I will provide you with a transcript upon receipt.  Additionally,  counsel for Clonch continues to call me and write me letters for Deposition dates for Enron officials.  They have provided me with the following dates on which they will be available in a letter dated 11/27/00: Jan 3-5 Jan 8-12 Jan 22-26 Tim C. Carrico Spilman Thomas & Battle, PLLC email: tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com phone:             (304)-340-3856 cell phone:       (304)-549-2681 fax:                  (304)-340-3801 address:           300 Kanawha Blvd., East Charleston, W.Va. 25301 
Jeffrey, Thanks for the ""thanks.""  Also, thanks to you for the big wine bucket.  We used it at our New Year's Day party, and it worked great.  I must admit, though, that I still don't understand the purpose of the round thing that goes in the bottom. I heard that Nathan took 30 steps the other day.  That is awesome!!  I know that you are thrilled. Cameron's birthday party will be March 18 at 3:30 at Gymboree.  If your kids will be able to attend, let me know. Talk to you later -- gotta go now. Michelle ""Jeff Hoogendam"" <Jeff@SmartPrice.com> on 01/05/2000 10:05:18 AM Please respond to Jeff@SmartPrice.com 
Michelle- Thanks for all the great Christmas gifts... I was thinking about you because last night I was showing a friend Sim City, this morning I awoke to the little portable clock, and was reading Texas Monthly in our library (you can guess!).  The boys specially like the clock.  They've figured out how to turn on the back lighting by pressing the snooze button. We went to Shiner for the new year.  The Lewis' invited 3 other couples and their kids.  We stayed up until about 2am playing cards and drinking champagne (although I only had two glasses). Nathan is getting more and more stable in his walking.  He took 10 steps yesterday, the most ever.  He also stands for several minutes at a time, learning how to balance himself.  He's at 19 months, 17 months adjusted. Kiera walked at 16 months.  We will be very happy if he is walking soon, given where he started. Thanks again for the great gifts. JP Jeff Hoogendam President & CEO - SmartPrice.com, Inc. 110 Wild Basin Road, Suite 280 Austin, TX 78746 P: 512-437-7950 F: 512-437-7925 
Richard, have you been involved in this?  Robert Knight asked about it. Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
Mark, Unfortunately, I do not know anything about EcoElectrica.  I contacted Michelle Blaine at the former EI (thinking that there was some confusion between Blaine and Cash).  Her assistant contacted me and said that, apparently, Coralina Rivera at the former EI has information about Eco Electrica in Puerto Rico.  I have left Coralina a message indicating that you are looking for information about EcoElectrica and requesting that she contact you directly. Let me know if I can do anything further on this matter. Michelle Mark Evans 01/17/2000 09:12 AM 
Jeff, do you know yet to whom at V&E Houston these docs should be sent? We would like a copy in the UK so we may ask your Houston office to do the honours and copy their set over to us. Thanks. Mark 
Thanks for the consideration -- I did not expect much.  Also, I have faxed you my comments on response to Malme's motion to extend time to designate experts.  The comments should be self-explanatory.  Call me with any questions -- or have Tim call me. Thanks. 
Kerry, Based upon your review of the attached, is there any way that one of our=20 subsidiaries could decline to include bargaining unit personnel in receipt = of=20 this benefit?  Let me know asap. Thanks a lot! Michelle 
On Wall Street, people are talking about Enron.  At Enron, we're talking=20 about people...our people.  You are the driving force behind every success= =20 that our company has experienced, including our high-performing stock price= ,=20 which surpassed the $50 mark only a few days ago. You made it happen! To show our appreciation for your hard work and commitment to Enron=01,s=20 continued success, eligible regular full-time and regular part-time employe= es=20 who were on the payroll of a wholly-owned Enron company at Dec. 31, 1999 wi= ll=20 receive 50 Enron stock options.  A special stock option award certificate a= nd=20 a copy of the stock plan will be sent to you in the next few weeks. About the stock options grant: ? The grant was effective Jan. 18, 2000, therefore, the option grant price = is=20 $55.50. ? Options will have a seven-year term, which means you must exercise these= =20 options before seven years have passed. ? Options will vest 25 percent on Feb. 28, 2000 and 25 percent each=20 subsequent January 18th thereafter until fully vested, as long as you are a= n=20 employee of Enron.  This means you may exercise 25 percent of these options= =20 as early as Feb. 28. ? This grant is made in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Enr= on=20 Corp. Stock Plans and the award documents, which you will receive in the=20 coming weeks.=20 Due to varying international restrictions and legalities, Enron employees i= n=20 certain international locations will receive some other form of recognition= . =20 Your local management and human resources representative will communicate= =20 further details. Visit home.enron.com for additional information.  There you can access a li= st=20 of frequently asked questions regarding stock options.  And you can view a= =20 special message from Ken Lay.  To access the special message, you must have= =20 IP-TV and a sound card. If you are not able to view Ken=01,s message, a=20 transcript is available.  If you encounter any technical difficulties, plea= se=20 contact your PC Help Desk. Again, thank you for all you do to make Enron a successful global energy an= d=20 broadband services company and a great place to work.=20 =20 
FYI.  Michelle 
Kate, here is the latest on Elektro.  Michelle 
Twanda, please get this on my calendar.  Michelle 
Drew Lynch has asked that I coordinate a project to determine if we have employees in the correct companies (for U.S. companies) and do we know the ownership structure of both domestic and foreign companies.  We will approach this in three phases as below: Phase I - On our payroll system - do we have employees in the correct companies in EPC and do we know which ones are wholly owned by Enron; Phase II - Not on our payroll but in the U.S. -  do we know who the employees are, what companies they work for and how our ownership is structured; Phase III - Not on our payroll and outside the U.S. - do we know who the employees are, what companies they work for and how our ownership is structured. I would like to schedule a meeting next Wednesday.  I will have some preliminary work completed and would like to review it at that time.  Christa Aguilar will be contacting each of you to coordinate a date and time.  If you are not able to attend I would like for you to send a representative.  Please call me at ext. 39815 is you have any questions. Felecia 
TWanda, please calendar and then make a file entitled ""Employees in Right Company"" and give to me on the date of the meeting.  Thanks a lot.  MHC 
Twanda, could you please check to see if we have this?  Thanks.  Michelle 
Hi Michelle I'm not sure if the Employment Agreement matter with JG Hong has now been completed.   We do not seem to have a copy of the same in the file.  Could you fax a copy to me at (65) 734-2868? thanks and regards Angeline 
Thanks for your note, Michelle. Yes, I think that we should put in your additional suggested language. Regards, Anita 
TWanda, we need an amendment to this agreement.  Would you please do the form?  Thanks.  Michelle 
John, Would you confirm (via a new email that I can print for my files) you have had the conversations with Dan Bruce, etc. about Entelligence that I scripted for you in a prior email? Thanks a lot. 
FYI.  Michelle 
Michelle, While I think that ""Enron"" discourages entering into agreements for services directly with non-employee contractors, there are times when a business decision is made to do so on a very limited basis.  Aside from other legal issues, one single issue that has received a lot of attention in recent years is the issue addressed by the Microsoft case involving the question under what circumstances are individuals designated as independent contractors entitled to employee benefits provided by  an employer to its employees. While we have amended the various employee benefit plans to address this issue, another place where it can be effectively addressed is in the contract for services. Recently, I was involved with a project to develop provisions to be included in such a service agreement with non-employee contractors who will not be entitled to employee benefits.  I thought you might have an interest in this, so I have attached the contract provisions that were developed for this circumstance along with an analysis. I wonder if there are other attorneys who design and draft such agreements who would be interested in receiving this information? Regards, Pat - Benefit Waiver 1.doc 
Ok, you told me nothing, so I am clueless as to what is creating the distress.  Maybe we can chat later. We will not be in Austin in the next few months.  We are going to San Antonio the first weekend in March, as well as the first week in April.  The first trip is for a wedding between two friends of Trey from Rice MBA who are marrying each other.  The other is for the Enron law conference, which is Wed.-Friday.  We are not taking Cameron on either of those trips (party time!!), so we will be rushing back to Houston right afterwards. I am working with Butch Hayes at F&J.  I haven't been too involved in the matter because it is not an Enron subsidiary, but from what I can tell, I like him.  Any additional insight, if necessary, would be great. Too bad you weren't in Houston a couple of weeks ago.  But, it probably would have been a sad time for all of you, and it sounds like you don't really need that right now.  If you visit us, we promise to be cheerful and frivolous if you need it -- not that acting that way is too much of a chore for me.  Plus, Cameron acts like a 2-year-old, which is a delight.  He started at a new school a few weeks ago (The Post Oak School -- a Montessori school about a block from our house), and he is really coming into his own.  It is amazing how much my world has both grown and shrunk since he was born.  Little things like seeing a squirrel in the back yard have become major events (don't even get me started on helicopters).  On the other hand, I feel this enormous responsibility and desire to make sure that all is right with the world. Quite an awesome sense of obligation and discovery combined. Enough waxing philosophical.  I've got to get out of here at some point, so I'd better get back to work. Later.  M mstewart@bmoh.com on 02/15/2000 03:01:03 PM 
Kate and Felicia -- that org chart was from me.  I thought there was an enclosure note.  Sorry!  Michelle Kate Cole@ENRON 02/16/2000 09:06 AM 
Felecia - Someone has sent me a copy of an org. chart showing employees for the subs. of The Protane Corporation.  I will enter these into the database. Please confirm that you have a copy or send your fax number to receive a copy.  Thanks Kate 
Twanda, would you please make this a form entitled ""Canada Release"" and then draft one for John Gorman?  I'll fill in the blanks.  Thanks.  MHC 
David, FYI.  Let me know if you have any comments, which I will give to Dawn.   I'll review it and get back with Dawn. 
Michelle, here is a first draft of a possible announcement re John Gorman. I am continuing to research the golf club status..... 
Charles, if this is for London, then we generally ask Jon Chapman (attorney over there) to review things.  Let me know if that is the case.  Michelle Charles A Taylor@ENRON 11/22/2000 11:24 AM 
Search for EIM Candidates in Europe.  Charles ext.53365 
Bryan - Lu Ann, Can you please sign this proposal and fax a copy and courier a  copy as we need your signature to proceed with the recruitment assignment. Your earliest attention would be appreciated. Happy Thanksgiving. MH 
Bryan Here is the proposal for recruitment agency. We might need your sign off MH 
** High Priority ** Atty / Martin, enclosed is the detailed proposal for your attention, could it be signed & sent back to me on 0207 872 1502. We have started the research programme in europe, this will be managed by Andrew Thornton-Norris here in london. He will co-ordinate across europe for us. Martin I have given him your number as a reference point if he needs clarification on any company/candidate details. regards Marc Marc Havercroft Senior Consultant direct line: 0207 872 1524 Mbl: 0797 0776819 Yvette Francis (PA) 0207 872 1620 ------------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our website at http://www.tmpexec.co.uk or http://www.monster.co.uk for online recruitment and career advice ------------------------------------------------------------------- - Enron Europe Proposal.doc 
Jim, Thanks for trying to call.  I am not surprised by this outcome.   I guess wer're bargaining! Michelle ""Carroll, James"" <JCarroll@littler.com> on 12/01/2000 05:39:19 PM 
Yikes!!!!   I can understand your preoccupation with those issues out there. I am sure that you are all ""talked out"" about it, but if you need an empathetic ear, give me a buzz.  Talk to you later. Michelle PS  I saw Julie Parraguirre last night, and she told me to say hello.  She is going to be teaching at the same school that Cameron attends! 
Great.  Our only plans are that we have tickets to the ballet on Saturday night.  If you want to attend, let me know, and we will get tickets.  It is Cleopatra -- a world premier -- and it should be entertaining.  I understand if you don't want to join us, though.  Ballet isn't for everyone.  Let me know.  Michelle mstewart@bmoh.com on 02/25/2000 10:26:57 AM 
Twanda, please print this out and also print out the consulting services agreement form for my review with this.  Thanks.  MHC 
Michelle, While I think that ""Enron"" discourages entering into agreements for services directly with non-employee contractors, there are times when a business decision is made to do so on a very limited basis.  Aside from other legal issues, one single issue that has received a lot of attention in recent years is the issue addressed by the Microsoft case involving the question under what circumstances are individuals designated as independent contractors entitled to employee benefits provided by  an employer to its employees. While we have amended the various employee benefit plans to address this issue, another place where it can be effectively addressed is in the contract for services. Recently, I was involved with a project to develop provisions to be included in such a service agreement with non-employee contractors who will not be entitled to employee benefits.  I thought you might have an interest in this, so I have attached the contract provisions that were developed for this circumstance along with an analysis. I wonder if there are other attorneys who design and draft such agreements who would be interested in receiving this information? Regards, Pat - Benefit Waiver 1.doc 
Hello.  Do you think this should be included in our consulting agreement form?  Michelle 
Michelle, While I think that ""Enron"" discourages entering into agreements for services directly with non-employee contractors, there are times when a business decision is made to do so on a very limited basis.  Aside from other legal issues, one single issue that has received a lot of attention in recent years is the issue addressed by the Microsoft case involving the question under what circumstances are individuals designated as independent contractors entitled to employee benefits provided by  an employer to its employees. While we have amended the various employee benefit plans to address this issue, another place where it can be effectively addressed is in the contract for services. Recently, I was involved with a project to develop provisions to be included in such a service agreement with non-employee contractors who will not be entitled to employee benefits.  I thought you might have an interest in this, so I have attached the contract provisions that were developed for this circumstance along with an analysis. I wonder if there are other attorneys who design and draft such agreements who would be interested in receiving this information? Regards, Pat - Benefit Waiver 1.doc 
Twanda, would you please make this change to all forms?  Thank you.  Michelle 
Michelle, We found another change for the employment agreement language.  The reference to the full name of the Admin Committee should read ""the Administrative Committee of the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the 
Plan Document and Form Award Agreement 
Twanda, please print all these.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Drew, At one point, we had mentioned the idea of having services agreements among Corp. and the various business units that are using shared services.  I think that these agreements should be put into place sooner rather than later as we begin to move towards shared services across the organization. Let me know if you would like me to prepare the drafts of these agreements or revise agreements that currently are in existence (if there are none, then we really need to put some in place). Thanks. 
Twanda, please save this as a form.  Thanks.  MHC 
Michelle, Geynelle told me you wanted a sample performance document.  Attached is the requested information. 
Please print the email and the attachments.  Thanks.  MHC 
Hi Michelle Attached are the three review forms that are being proposed for the mid-year reviews accross all business units.  The VP form remains unchanged from the end of year 99 review.  The other two forms have been created based on the VP format.    Can you please review and advise if there are any issues with this. Secondly, can you advise on the issues, if any, on providing consolidated feedback to a VP PRC Committee group (i.e. 26 MD's) on all VP's we have in Enron.   There has been a request that we provide this to this group other than the direct supervisor. Thirdly, is there any issues with us or a HR representative  inputting feedback into the PEP system in another language ie. spanish/portguese. Many thanks, Karen. 
Thanks for the info.  I think that makes it worse!  Michelle Amanda Curless@ENRON 12/01/2000 12:01 PM 
Michelle, I talked with Accounts Payable and we are sending payments to the UK. The address is 5355 HighStreet, Egham, Great Britain. Thanks! Mandy 
Plan Document and Form Award Agreement 
Pat, here are the draft plan documents.  Any comments would be appreciated. Michelle 
Here it is.  Michelle 
Twanda, please save under Japanese labor law memo and print for me.  Thanks. Michelle 
As per Alan's request, attached is the Baker & McKenzie memorandum dated April 1999, which provides an overview of the principal labor rules and standards required by Japanese law. Thanks. Nony Flores 
John, Do you have any comments on this letter?  Rick and I would like to send it out soon. Thanks. Michelle 
Attached is a memo that I am currently working on with Rick Johnson.  Please review and provide me with any comments. Rick will be in the Houston office for the next two days. Thanks 
TWanda, please print and then save the attachment as HR Confidentiality /Non-Solicitation agreement -- print for my review and editing.  Thanks a lot.  MHC 
Thanks for the your input.   Please see my responses in BLUE and here is the electronic document: Thanks. Jo Ann Michelle Cash@ECT 03/29/2000 01:59 PM 
JoAnn, I left you a voice mail responding to your voice mail containing these questions.  I wonder why you didn't get it?  Anyway, the responses are as follows: 1.  Thanks for getting it typed into the system.  I look forward to reviewing the document.  (I guess that explains why we couldn't find it in our system!!) 2.  New title is fine.  In fact, I am thinking that we should have anyone who works in HR sign off on this agreement.  What do you think?  That is the plan.  What I'd like to do is take this to the HR Council and have them assign a point person in each of their business units to coordinate getting this done for the current HR staff, in addition to all future additions to HR. 3.  It should go in PH file, with a copy to me for my files. This will be incorporated into the ""Procedures"". 4.  I have prepared a contractor agreement, which Derek Anderson has.  If you need a copy, let me know.  Yes I'd like this copy.  With so many contractors working in HR, I believe we need to also include them in this exercise. Please forward a copy and I'll include in the process. Thanks. Michelle Jo Ann Hill@ENRON 03/29/2000 01:56 PM 
Michelle -- per my voice message I left the other day, there are still a few outstanding questions I need your feedback on relative to the subject document. I have a hardcopy version which does not indicate a document number.  I am having our assistant put this into an electronic version and will forward to you for final signoff. I have retitled the agreement from ""Confidentiality Agreement"" to ""Human Resources Information Confidentiality Agreement"". When signed, where do you suggest the signed document be filed -- employees' Personnel History (PH) file? The document is an agreement only between an ""employee"" and Enron.  What about all of the contractors working in HR?  Will they be required to sign a similar agreement or should this be covered in the master agreement with the vendor and/or individual consultant? Thanks for your response. Jo Ann 
I spoke with Corporate Compensation yesterday (Kim Bolton) about the option of paying for stock options/phantom stock with proceeds from the EIP incentive plan.   She is working on obtaining approval for that provision. Otherwise, I believe that we are ready to review a final version of the plan.  Jeanne, could you please circulate one? I'll be in San Antonio for the law conference the rest of the week, but this process should not wait for me.  Once corporate comp gives it the ok, we should be ready to finalize it. 
Call me if you have any questions.  I hope this is better late than never! Michelle Christa Winfrey 04/13/2000 01:20 PM 
Michelle, Thank you very much for reviewing and returning the Termination Procedure that my group, ENA Competitive Analysis & Business Controls, has been working on.  Marissa Womble forwarded the edited procedure to me, and I will make the necessary changes to the document.  I truly appreciate your knowledge and legal expertise, especially in this matter.  Please note that Marissa Womble has rotated into a new group; therefore, please contact either Kristin Walsh (ext. 3-9510) or myself (ext. 3-9307) regarding any future policies and procedures. Thank you, Christa Winfrey 
Elspeth, do we want to do a new agreement, or simply assume the obligations in the old one?  If the former, I'd do a new agreement.  If the latter, I believe I simply can do an assignment agreement, once I receive a copy of the current agreement.  It also depends on the language in the old one, and whether we believe it protects ENA.  So, we'd have to look at it. Sharon, do you have the file on this person?  If so, let me know, and I will have someone come and pick it up.  Thanks. Michelle Elspeth Inglis@ENRON on 04/14/2000 04:56:09 PM 
Michelle when rolling over an employment contract from another  Enron entity is it re-issued with same details but under ENA's name? thanks Elspeth 
Mike will transfer to Delainey's new team (from CALME) effective April 24. He has an exec agreement which expires 12/31/01 which we will roll over. He will need RC chnaged effective above and also lets make sure he has a desk etc., Elspetrh please take lead on above (watch payroll in event the Soc Sec gets screwed up). David 
data from EU countries to the USA 
Jeff, What is the status of the document?  I expect that Jon will be calling me any day. Thanks. Michelle 
from EU countries to the USA Jeff, here is information from Jon Chapman.  Let's discuss when you have a chance to review it.  Michelle ----------------- Michelle, Further to our discussion on Tuesday , I am very happy to proceed on the basis of Jeff Dodd's draft Agreement ( and draft Data Protection Policy) . Can you ask him to prepare a final version and let us have it , please. The EU ""Data Exporter"" entities are as follows:- UK Enron Europe Limited (also Italy ) Enron Power Operations Limited Enron Teesside Operations Limited Enron Direct Limited Enron Engineering Services Caxios Limited Norway and Sweden Enron Capital & Trade Resources International Corp. Germany Enron Energie GmbH Finland Enron Finland Energy OY Spain Enron Espana Energia S.L. Note that Norway is not a member of the EU but , as a member of the European Economic Area , should be treated as an EU member for these purposes. I look forward to hearing from you. Thanks. Jon 
Rick, FYI.  Also, there is a status meeting at 10:00 today -- I don't know if you got message, but I hope you can participate by phone.  Michelle 
Twanda, please save this in whatever power point directory you have.  Then, print for me to revise for a presentation to Energy Operations for Norma. Save this one, though, because the one I am going to use for Energy Ops will be much shorter, and this one has good stuff in it!  Thanks.  Michelle 
el data from EU countries to the USA 
FYI 
personn el data from EU countries to the USA Jeff, I assume that the two attachments are the revised policies.  If that is not the case, let me know.  Thanks for your follow up.  Michelle . ""DODD, JEFF"" <jdodd@mdck.com> on 04/20/2000 01:13:34 PM 
data from EU countries to the USA Jeff, What is the status of the document?  I expect that Jon will be calling me any day. Thanks. Michelle 
data from EU countries to the USA Jeff, here is information from Jon Chapman.  Let's discuss when you have a chance to review it.  Michelle ----------------- Michelle, Further to our discussion on Tuesday , I am very happy to proceed on the basis of Jeff Dodd's draft Agreement ( and draft Data Protection Policy) . Can you ask him to prepare a final version and let us have it , please. The EU ""Data Exporter"" entities are as follows:- UK Enron Europe Limited (also Italy ) Enron Power Operations Limited Enron Teesside Operations Limited Enron Direct Limited Enron Engineering Services Caxios Limited Norway and Sweden Enron Capital & Trade Resources International Corp. Germany Enron Energie GmbH Finland Enron Finland Energy OY Spain Enron Espana Energia S.L. Note that Norway is not a member of the EU but , as a member of the European Economic Area , should be treated as an EU member for these purposes. I look forward to hearing from you. Thanks. Jon (See attached file: #606521 v2 - ENRON unannotated Data Protection Policy.doc) (See attached file: #606631 v2 - data protection agreement-no annotation.doc) (See attached file: Annotated Agreement- Not revised since 12-1998.doc) 
How is the research going on whether we can set up the plan the way we want to?  My understanding is that you were going to do some research for us. Thanks.  Michelle ""Wilson, Jeanne"" <jkwilson@velaw.com> on 04/05/2000 11:25:23 AM 
I spoke with Corporate Compensation yesterday (Kim Bolton) about the option of paying for stock options/phantom stock with proceeds from the EIP incentive plan.   She is working on obtaining approval for that provision. Otherwise, I believe that we are ready to review a final version of the plan. Jeanne, could you please circulate one? I'll be in San Antonio for the law conference the rest of the week, but this process should not wait for me.  Once corporate comp gives it the ok, we should be ready to finalize it. Michelle Cash 
Sylvia/Sharon:  I assume that copies will be provided to me and Kriste as well.   I would appreciate the opportunity to review them.  Thanks.  Michelle Sylvia Martinez@ENRON 04/28/2000 04:05 PM 
Sharon, All the information is being gathered and should be on its way to you.  If you do not receive it by Monday, please give me a call and I will collect and hand walk it up to you. Thanks so much for the response. Sylvia Sharon Butcher 04/27/2000 05:40 PM 
Dear Sylvia: I would like to make sure that the terminology used to code Terminations is consistent with the terms and provisions of the applicable plans, e.g.,  stock plans and severance plans.  I would like to view the appropriate SAP screens or you may send me the terminology.  Thanks.  Sharon Sylvia Martinez 04/26/2000 05:39 PM 
Sharon, Kristi, & Michelle, I am currently involved in a task group that is reviewing processes for the Transaction Processing Center, SAP go live on 7/1.  The processes involve all aspects from hiring, transfers, position control and termination.  I wanted to drop a line to check with you to see if there were any current reviews that your group might be conducting at this time that would require updates or changes to the current state processing.  We want to be sure to capture all gaps (i.e.  specific terminology, forms, letters, contracts, etc.) are documented and resolved before go live. We would greatly appreciate any feedback you could provide at this time. Also, if you are aware of any other groups that might need to be contacted that have a vested interest, we will gladly give them a call. Thanks so much, Sylvia 
Rick, are you on this, or should I get on it?  Michelle 
Hi, Charla, I have reviewed the additional fields you described.  Most of them look fine with me.  I do have some concerns with the questions about birthplace, citizenship, personal travel, and reason for return from prior assignment. The questions about birthplace/citizenship are the most risky.  As I have discussed with others, such questions could create issues of national origin discrimination, particularly if one's birthplace country is not evident from any other source.  It also could create a privacy issue if we are asking questions that are not job-related and consistent with business necessity. What is the purpose of this inquiry?  Are we trying to determine whether  a person is eligible to work in a particular country?  If so, it appears that birthplace and citizenship are not the answers that we need.  We already have a field on where a person is eligible to work, which would cover the situation where a person has citizenship in one country, but is on a work visa to another.   Any other information may not be necessary. The question about reasons for returning from leave also could unearth information that we really don't want to keep on a system.  For example, if a person left because of health reasons, or the birth of a child . . . it really is not a job-related issue.  What is the purpose of this question?  Is there a less intrusive way to ask it? Finally, the question about countries visited for personal reasons also is asking information that is not job-related.  What is the purpose of that inquiry?  Is there another way to gather that information? Let me stress that none of these inquiries is unlawful -- some of them may be unwise for the reasons I cited above.  If you would like to discuss this further, please give me a call. Michelle Charla Reese@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/02/2000 08:34 PM 
Sharon / Michelle As it has been approximately six weeks from my original request, could you please advise what timeframe we should expect this request to be completed? We would like to move forward with enhancements to GIS this quarter.  Please let me know if there is someone else I should be contacting - thank you! Charla x69675 
Just wanted to touch base with you to see if you had any questions re: the attached message and check on what timeline we should expect for legal approval. Thanks! Charla x58293 
Michelle / Sharon We would like to include the following fields in GIS to support our International Human Resources efforts.  Could you please review for global legality issues? Thank you! Charla x58293 
Kathy As we move forward with enhancements to GIS, the International HR group would like to capture the following valuable information related to international skills sets: Demographics Birth Place (Country) Current Residence (Country) Citizenship (Country) Passport (# / Issuing Country) Mobility Authorization to Work (Countries) Travel Availability (% Domestic / % International) Relocation Availability (Y/N) Relocation Preferences (Countries) Global Exposure Countries Visited (Business vs. Leisure - Length of Visit) Current International Assignee (Y/N) Current Assignment Location Former International Assignee (Y/N) Location and Length of Past Assignment(s) Reason for Return (As Scheduled, Premature - Change in Business Strategy, Premature - Personal, Other) Jane - is there anything you wish to add or change at this point? Tim - I will run these by Mike to see what SAP can incorporate in the future (particularly Demographics). Kathy - Please advise how you envision this process to work; it might be a good idea to discuss the various ways this information could be laid out - thanks! Charla x58293 
I inadvertently forgot to ""Reply to All"" when I sent this response to Charla. Michelle 
Hi, Charla, I have reviewed the additional fields you described.  Most of them look fine with me.  I do have some concerns with the questions about birthplace, citizenship, personal travel, and reason for return from prior assignment. The questions about birthplace/citizenship are the most risky.  As I have discussed with others, such questions could create issues of national origin discrimination, particularly if one's birthplace country is not evident from any other source.  It also could create a privacy issue if we are asking questions that are not job-related and consistent with business necessity. What is the purpose of this inquiry?  Are we trying to determine whether  a person is eligible to work in a particular country?  If so, it appears that birthplace and citizenship are not the answers that we need.  We already have a field on where a person is eligible to work, which would cover the situation where a person has citizenship in one country, but is on a work visa to another.   Any other information may not be necessary. The question about reasons for returning from leave also could unearth information that we really don't want to keep on a system.  For example, if a person left because of health reasons, or the birth of a child . . . it really is not a job-related issue.  What is the purpose of this question?  Is there a less intrusive way to ask it? Finally, the question about countries visited for personal reasons also is asking information that is not job-related.  What is the purpose of that inquiry?  Is there another way to gather that information? Let me stress that none of these inquiries is unlawful -- some of them may be unwise for the reasons I cited above.  If you would like to discuss this further, please give me a call. Michelle Charla Reese@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/02/2000 08:34 PM 
Sharon / Michelle As it has been approximately six weeks from my original request, could you please advise what timeframe we should expect this request to be completed? We would like to move forward with enhancements to GIS this quarter.  Please let me know if there is someone else I should be contacting - thank you! Charla x69675 
Just wanted to touch base with you to see if you had any questions re: the attached message and check on what timeline we should expect for legal approval. Thanks! Charla x58293 
Michelle / Sharon We would like to include the following fields in GIS to support our International Human Resources efforts.  Could you please review for global legality issues? Thank you! Charla x58293 
Kathy As we move forward with enhancements to GIS, the International HR group would like to capture the following valuable information related to international skills sets: Demographics Birth Place (Country) Current Residence (Country) Citizenship (Country) Passport (# / Issuing Country) Mobility Authorization to Work (Countries) Travel Availability (% Domestic / % International) Relocation Availability (Y/N) Relocation Preferences (Countries) Global Exposure Countries Visited (Business vs. Leisure - Length of Visit) Current International Assignee (Y/N) Current Assignment Location Former International Assignee (Y/N) Location and Length of Past Assignment(s) Reason for Return (As Scheduled, Premature - Change in Business Strategy, Premature - Personal, Other) Jane - is there anything you wish to add or change at this point? Tim - I will run these by Mike to see what SAP can incorporate in the future (particularly Demographics). Kathy - Please advise how you envision this process to work; it might be a good idea to discuss the various ways this information could be laid out - thanks! Charla x58293 
T:  Would you please print this and attached and file in BP amoco file? Thanks.  MHC 
Attached are two different programs that have to be installed first to be able to open Ghost Files ""*.gho"". 1. Launch gexp12.exe to install Ghost Explorer v1.2 then 2. Launch Ghost60.exe, then go into the folder Ghost60 and launch Ghostexp.exe, ( you will need to unzip to c:\temp ) 3. Then goto Start...Run and type:   \\eitxhou1f06\security or \\172.20.249.102\security   to access the secure location of users Ghost Files. 4. Double click the ghost file you want to access and the lastest version should work from then on from just going to the security folder and doubleclicking on the ghost file. 1.........2....................... 3................ 4............... If you have any problems or questions call Matt Ahern x58825 Henry and Michelle your user ID's and Passwords will be sent to you in separate emails to access the EI-Houston Domain. 
el data from EU countries to the USA 
Jon, it was attached to the bottom of his prior email, which I will resend to you right now.  MHC Jon Chapman 05/09/2000 08:21 AM 
data from EU countries to the USA Thanks , Michelle - something appears to have gone wrong on his system . When can we expect something to review here ? Thanks. Jon Michelle Cash 20/04/2000 20:44 
data from EU countries to the USA FYI 
personn el data from EU countries to the USA Jeff, I assume that the two attachments are the revised policies.  If that is not the case, let me know.  Thanks for your follow up.  Michelle . ""DODD, JEFF"" <jdodd@mdck.com> on 04/20/2000 01:13:34 PM 
data from EU countries to the USA Jeff, What is the status of the document?  I expect that Jon will be calling me any day. Thanks. Michelle 
data from EU countries to the USA Jeff, here is information from Jon Chapman.  Let's discuss when you have a chance to review it.  Michelle ----------------- Michelle, Further to our discussion on Tuesday , I am very happy to proceed on the basis of Jeff Dodd's draft Agreement ( and draft Data Protection Policy) . Can you ask him to prepare a final version and let us have it , please. The EU ""Data Exporter"" entities are as follows:- UK Enron Europe Limited (also Italy ) Enron Power Operations Limited Enron Teesside Operations Limited Enron Direct Limited Enron Engineering Services Caxios Limited Norway and Sweden Enron Capital & Trade Resources International Corp. Germany Enron Energie GmbH Finland Enron Finland Energy OY Spain Enron Espana Energia S.L. Note that Norway is not a member of the EU but , as a member of the European Economic Area , should be treated as an EU member for these purposes. I look forward to hearing from you. Thanks. Jon (See attached file: #606521 v2 - ENRON unannotated Data Protection Policy.doc) (See attached file: #606631 v2 - data protection agreement-no annotation.doc) (See attached file: Annotated Agreement- Not revised since 12-1998.doc) 
Any idea why they did this?  Michelle ""Cover, Mark"" <mcover@velaw.com> on 05/09/2000 12:55:26 PM 
Steve Hamilton informed me this morning that the Department of Labor called him to postpone their investigation scheduled for Monday, May 15th.  They said they would call again to reschedule later.  We are still proceeding with our review and report, as are the auditors, and we hope to have our report ready by the end of this week.  Please let me know if you have any questions in the meantime. /s/ Mark A. Cover Vinson & Elkins L.L.P. 3700 Trammell Crow Center 2001 Ross Avenue Dallas, Texas  75201 (214) 220-7869 (214) 999-7869 FAX mcover@velaw.com CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The information contained in this e-mail may be confidential and/or privileged.  This e-mail is intended to be reviewed initially only by the individual named above.  If you are not the intended recipient or a representative thereof, or if you believe you have received this e-mail in error, you are hereby notified that any review, dissemination or copying of this e-mail or the information it contains is prohibited.  If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify the sender.  Thank you. - C.DTF 
That was sent to you by messenger.  Getting it notarized may take a long time -- is it necessary?  Michelle ""Linda Broocks"" <lbroocks@ogwb.com> on 05/11/2000 10:58:15 AM Please respond to <lbroocks@ogwb.com> 
Twanda, would you please print this for me?  Thanks.  MHC--my printer is not working (or maybe I haven't selected my local printer correctly) 
- Milnthorp's draft is in his hands - Clemmons final has been sent - Lemmons is with him - Brown has been sent to him 
FYI.  Here is most of the information.  Michelle 
Michelle, as I mentioned in my voice mail to you, I would like to use contractors from the two firms listed below.  Both of these firms have contractors available now, so as soon as we get these agreements in place we can bring them in and put them to work.  If possible, I'd like any agreement we put in place to be flexible enough to allow us to use other contractors in the future besides those we currently have identified.  If you need me to do anything else or if you are not the right person to talk to, please let me know.  Thanks. AccountSource International Contact:   Pam White, Partner Phone:   713-629-9200 Address:   770 S. Post Oak Lane Suite 325 Houston, TX  77056 Email Address: plw@account-source.com Fax:  713-629-0101 Enterprise Services Company Contact:   Rebecca Soots, Manager Phone:  713-219-4234 Address: 6671 Southwest Frwy Houston, TX  77074 Email Address: Rpsoots@esc-hdq.com 
Twanda, could you please start Consulting Services AGreements for these entities?  I have asked Norma to get the rest of the information. Thanks.  MHC 
Michelle, as I mentioned in my voice mail to you, I would like to use contractors from the two firms listed below.  Both of these firms have contractors available now, so as soon as we get these agreements in place we can bring them in and put them to work.  If possible, I'd like any agreement we put in place to be flexible enough to allow us to use other contractors in the future besides those we currently have identified.  If you need me to do anything else or if you are not the right person to talk to, please let me know.  Thanks. AccountSource International Contact:   Pam White, Partner Phone:   713-629-9200 Address:   770 S. Post Oak Lane Suite 325 Houston, TX  77056 Email Address: plw@account-source.com Fax:  713-629-0101 Enterprise Services Company Contact:   Rebecca Soots, Manager Phone:  713-219-4234 Address: 6671 Southwest Frwy Houston, TX  77074 Email Address: Rpsoots@esc-hdq.com 
Mark, Do we need to say something about the fact that V&E is representing Ecogas and not the plan to ensure protection of the privilege?  MHC ""Cover, Mark"" <mcover@velaw.com> 05/10/2000 03:34 PM 
Steve, Here is some proposed language for your memo or e-mail to employees, per your concerns: ============== Recently, you may have noticed some activity or heard some rumors regarding the Ecogas 401(k) plan.  Let me assure you that the plan is sound, and that the assets of the plan are safely held in trust with Merrill Lynch.  The activity you may have noticed or the rumors you may have heard likely come from the fact that Ecogas has been contacted by the Department of Labor for a routine investigation of the plan.  In connection with that investigation, Ecogas has hired the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, who has visited our offices, to conduct a review and to make recommendations for improvement and for corrective action.  I cannot stress enough that Ecogas stands behind the 401(k) plan and is committed to making the necessary improvements and corrections.  I know you will join me in welcoming this opportunity to make our plan better. =============== /s/ Mark A. Cover Vinson & Elkins L.L.P. 3700 Trammell Crow Center 2001 Ross Avenue Dallas, Texas  75201 (214) 220-7869 (214) 999-7869 FAX mcover@velaw.com CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The information contained in this e-mail may be confidential and/or privileged.  This e-mail is intended to be reviewed initially only by the individual named above.  If you are not the intended recipient or a representative thereof, or if you believe you have received this e-mail in error, you are hereby notified that any review, dissemination or copying of this e-mail or the information it contains is prohibited.  If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify the sender.  Thank you. - C.DTF 
I sent Milnthorp and Lemmons to you.  I sent Brown to Tara Rozen in London. Clemmons final will go today. Do we need to talk about Josey and Thompson? Michelle David Oxley 05/12/2000 07:27 AM 
- Milnthorp's draft is in his hands - Clemmons final has been sent - Lemmons is with him - Brown has been sent to him David 
Tara, perhaps the Brown contract should have gone to Melissa instead of you -- sorry.  Could you please let me know if I need to re-route or do anything else on that agreement?  Oxley is anxious for it to get to him.  thanks. Michelle 
Spoke with him about his contract on Monday. We agreed following changes and he would sign; 1 - Should read Michael L Brown throughout 2 - He would us to have Mark F send him a note (separately) that says why we will rank him as a VP he can continue to use the MD title externally and maintain any related travel perq's associated with that. 3 - We should change cash sign-on to 12 months pay back. Can you get him final asap. Also Kim/Mel lets draft email for Mark F. 
Welcome to the heat!!! If you would re-send your resume to me, I'll re-send it to my contacts here in town and let them know that you now are available.  I think I may have a firm that could use your skills! Michelle ""Emma Caplan"" <emmacaplan@bootsnall.net> 05/12/2000 10:45 AM 
Hi Michelle I hope that you are well. Just to update you, I am now based in Houston permanently. I am still following up the leads you kindly provided me with. However I would be grateful if you would consider me for any suitable future positions which you become aware of. Many thanks for your continuing assistance. Emma Caplan -- _______________________________________________________________________ The Ultimate Resource for the Independent Traveller http://www.BootsnAll.com powered by OutBlaze 
Looks good to me, although I will have a new fax number soon.  I will ask Twanda to send it to you once I know what it is.  Michelle LaVerne Essoufi@ENRON 05/12/2000 10:49 AM 
Please make the necessary corrections to following attachment to help update our current phone list. Thanks, LaVerne 
TWanda, would you please call them? Thanks.  MHC 
Michelle, Roberto and I would like to meet with for 30 minutes sometime next week. Please let us know if and when you are available. Thanks, Michael Freel 
Valeria, I will be out of town that day and cannot attend.  I will provide feedback via the feedback forms. Michelle Valeria A Hope 05/11/2000 05:08 PM 
The ENA HR Performance Review Meeting has been scheduled for Tuesday, May 23rd beginning at 8am at a location to be determined later.  This will be a final review of employees below manager level and a prereview meeting for managers, directors and sr. directors. The meeting will begin at  8am with a review of clerks, jr. professional, and sr. professional employees.    Feel free to invite other managers and directors on your team to participate in this meeting. In preparation for this meeting the following needs to happen asap (note that the PEP system opens Monday, May 15): 1.  Employees in your group need to suggest their reviewers using the PEP system and provide you a summary of their accomplishments/status of objectives. 2.  You need to approve the reviewers and request feedback from the reviewers using the PEP system. 3.  A preliminary evaluation should be completed for each of your employees. Call me if you have questions about this process. Valeria 
FYI 
Please reserve the following dates on your calendar for the ENA Legal Conference that will be held at the Woodlands Resort and Conference Center this year: October 5 & 6, 2000 
__________________ Please reserve the following dates on your calendar for the ENA Legal Conference that will be held at the Woodlands Resort and Conference Center this year: October 5 & 6, 2000 
Twanda, here is more information about the project for Baxter.  Michelle 
The bill rate with Enterprise Services for Lloyd Lee is $37.50/hour.  Thanks. 
Twanda, could you please print these attachments in color?  Thanks.  MHC 
Please review the attached requested changes in the employment agreement for Barbara Paige.  Let me know if we can add these changes or if we need to meet and discuss.  Thank you. 
Bryce, I am not comfortable with bringing someone in without an agreement.  I should have a draft to you this afternoon at the latest, so it should not be a problem for the person to start tomorrow.  I will ask my assistant, Twanda, to send you the confidentiality agreement that we require all contract personnel to sign so that you can get it to the person for signature today. Michelle Bryce Baxter 05/15/2000 08:40 AM 
Do you have any concerns/issues with Rebecca's proposal below to start the contractor without the formal contract in place? 
Hi Bryce, In discussing the difficulties in getting this contract in place to meet both your needs and Mr. Lloyds, it was brought to my attention that since we have already established a good working relationship with Enron that we would not have a problem allowing Mr. Lloyd to begin working without an official contract in place.  I do not know how your management would feel about a letter of proposal, which would serve as a temporary work authorization until the final contract is in place but it is something that ESC is willing to do.  Assuming Ms. Cash is able to pull together the Master Service Agreement by Monday and everything is agreeable to ESC then it obviously would not be necessary to implement a temporary work authorization.  However, should we run into further obstacles, I wanted to share with you this possible opportunity. One of the things that I wanted to discuss with you is your remaining staffing requirements.  I am not sure I have a clear picture of the exact skills you are looking for and would like to avoid sending you resumes which do meet your needs.  Also, how many candidates are you looking to bring on? I look forward to hearing from you, hopefully we'll be luckier with the phones next week... Thank You, Rebecca P. Soots Manager Enterprise Services Company 713.219.4234 Rpsoots@esc-hdq.com Fax - 713.270.7195 
Pete, I learned today of a deal involving a newsprint plant in New Jersey, which you are running from the legal side. Are there any issues involving personnel or labor involved in this deal?  If so, I would appreciate your getting me in the loop as early as possible. Thanks. 
Twanda, I will have inserts to the two agreements for Bryce Baxter from this document.  Michelle 
Per our conversation, attached is the document that includes the liquidation language.  Please let me know if you change it.  Thanks! 
Twanda, would you please print this for me?  I will need to have it executed.  Thanks.  MHC 
Hi Michelle Please let us know when we may expect to receive a copy of the duly executed Secondment Agreement for our file. Regards Angeline 
Hi Michelle We have now finalised the Secondment Agreement with Kim & Chang, and the soft copy is attached for your further action.   Please let us have a fully executed copy for our file thereafter. Thanks and regards Angeline Michelle Cash 28/02/2000 23:08 
Matt, I am aware that an agreement was contemplated.  I did not prepare one, however.  I worked only on the employment agreement.  You might check with Sharon Butcher to see whether she has one. If we need to put one in place, it can be done rather easily. Michelle Matthias Lee 02/28/2000 01:44 AM 
Dear Michelle and Fran I understand from my file and from speaking with Anita Fam that you were to have a Secondment Agreement for Mr JG Hong and Ms Kim JA put in place between Enron Overseas Services Corp (""EOSC"" previously known as ""OPC Ltd"") and Enron Capital & Trade Resources Korea Corp. (""ECTRKC"", a Delaware corporation). This dates back to on or about January 1999, but I don't have a copy of the executed Secondment Agreement on file. Please let me have a copy as we may potentially have to present a copy to the Korean tax authorities as evidence of Mr JG Hong and Ms Kim JA's employment/secondment structure. There are some tax related issues that have arisen in Enron Korea that I'm assisting Lim Tiong Hock to resolve and your early response would be most appreciated. Thanks and regards Matt 
Talk with Mary McKendrey (may be spelled wrong), or Pam Butler in corporate comp. Trey Cash@ENRON 05/15/2000 02:52 PM 
Can you remind me who handles the AESOP information -- I will be passing the name on to Peggy Determeyer, as noted below. L, T 
Do you have the name and phone number of the person who handles the options? I checked my statement, and no options were credited for yearend 1999. Thanks, Peggy 
Right now, I am .  This meeting may take more than an hour, though. Michelle  PS, I think Pat Mackin should be included in this, if he is not already.  MHC Diana Gutierrez@ENRON 05/15/2000 11:03 AM 
Are you available to meet to discuss the referenced meeting on Wednesday, May 17th at 1:00 PM CST? Thanks, Diana 
__________________ Please plan to attend the HR Meeting on Tuesday, May 16th in conference room 560 from 3:00 - 5:00 p.m. Please call if you have any questions. Thank you 
Linda, I haven't looked at the pleading, but it should be fine if it is simply a nonsuit with prejudice.  Thanks for your help on this.  MHC ""Linda Broocks"" <lbroocks@ogwb.com> 05/15/2000 05:00 PM Please respond to lbroocks 
Here are the draft motion for nonsuit and order for nonsuit with prejudice. (As you will recall, Tom specifically requested that the nonsuit be with prejudice).  If you approve, I will file these tomorrow and bring this matter to a conclusion. Thanks for you attention. Linda P.S.  I will be in the office all day tomorrow and can discuss the JAMS/AAA issue at your convenience. - MtnNonSuit&.Order.wpd 
Here is the thing I have edited. Michelle 
Thanks, Sharon.  The GIS version just adds a view words from the employment application alerting employees not to 'overstate' their education, skills, experience, etc. Sharon Butcher 05/12/2000 06:00 PM 
Dear Sherry:  I provided the SAP version which is similar to the one on the Corporate LAN.  I will have Mark Holsworth and Kriste Sullivan provide their comments.  Thanks.   Sharon Sherry Lessner 05/12/2000 05:52 PM 
We are working on a single logon process through HR On-Line that will enable employees to utilize functionality in SAP Employee Self Service and HR-GIS without having to be concerned about which system to use.  I am attaching the security warning messages from both systems for your review.  Andrea and I believe it would be best to combine these statements and would appreciate your assistance in doing so.  Michelle, as you will recall, you helped us with the statement for HR-GIS.  I do not know who provided the SAP version, but it seems more similar to the general one on the Corporate LAN. Please let me know if one of you can assist us with this.  We are under a pretty tight time crunch with July 1 looming fairly closely.  Thank you for your consideration and help! 
He and I are meeting this week to discuss opportunities.  I'll keep you posted.  Michelle 
not yet.  mhc Pam Butler@ENRON 05/16/2000 02:12 PM 
Any documents available from V&E for my review yet? Thanks. Pam 
__________________ The HR Meeting will be held on Thursday, May 18th from 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. in room 560.  For conference call please call 713/8533233 passcode 6500. Thank you 
MHC 
My secretary found the following info, and made a tentative reservation for you: Ameri-suites (512) 231 8491 3612 Tudor Blvd Austin, Tx 78759 King - no smoking - $129.00/night Confirmation # P21301-00 Directions:  183 North to Capital of Tx Highway Right on Cap of Tex Right on Stone Lake Left on Tudor Hotel on Left Thank you. Butch Hayes Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. (512) 320-4564 shayes@fulbright.com 
Felecia, thanks so much for the listing of companies whose employees are paid directly by Enron which includes legal name, % ownership, employee count, etc.  Great work and excellent due diligence.  As we discussed, you are in the process of researching and documenting the same information for the non-payroll companies which of course is critical for completing our due diligence with respect to the new AESOP. In order to get this information for determining AESOP participation, and as we dscussed today, we are asking the HR leadership team to work with their business units to provide us with all non-payroll company names (to provide legal name, if different), % ownership, whether or not the company is part of Enron's consolidated reporting group (if not, why) and number of employees. They will also give us a ""yes"" or ""no"" at this time as to whether their Business Unit Head wishes for the company to participate in AESOP.  We are asking them to forward this file to you, as we discussed, to assist you with data collection.  We would ask that you coordinate the necessary Legal review of ownership levels with Michelle Cash.  We will facilitate with Johnna Young a review of whether we will have any accounting issues with granting options to employees of each respective company.    We have a tight turnaround, of course, as outlined in today's meeting, but hopefully we have good game plan to get us to where we need to be. Note to Johnna:  Johnna, attached please see Felicia's file on domestic for your initial review. Thanks again, Felecia, for your help. Pam Felecia Acevedo 04/05/2000 10:59 AM 
Pam, Here is the file 
I got this email.  My address is Michelle.Cash@enron.com. We're going to San Antonio tomorrow and then to Austin for a few days.  It will be nice to get away. See ya! Michelle ""Brian Hoogendam"" <Brian_Hoogendam@computerhorizons.com> 05/18/2000 08:42 AM 
is this your correct email address? if not, some nabe is getting a mail from the wrong person....heh, heh...let me know..later..Brian 
Twanda, would you please print this and also the attachment -- with the notes?  Thanks.  MHC 
I have prepared the attached and forwarded to Drew Lynch.  I am meeting with him today.  From my understanding, he agrees with the attached, so we can move forward with the payback letter.  Can you assist? Thanks, Jane 
12/18 is ok, not the 19th. Bonnie White@ENRON 12/04/2000 04:25 PM 
Would you be available either Monday, Dec. 18, either morning or afternoon, or Tuesday, 12/19, in the morning? 
Even though I put ""DO NOT RESCHEDULE"" on our lunch meeting next week . . . . Believe it or not, an all-day meeting has been scheduled for 5/31 (it is a PRC meeting), and I have to attend.  We never will eat together!  How about June 2 or 6?  As they say, the best laid plans. . . Let me know, and SORRY. Michelle PS, I'll be out of the office all next week on vacation.  : ) 
Hi, Kelly, Yes, I probably am the person to contact on this.  In fact, I am getting ready to circulate a draft data protection policy that would put Enron in compliance with EU directives.  Look for it in the next few days! Michelle Kelly Noel Higgason@ENRON 05/19/2000 03:13 PM 
Michelle: It occurred to me as I sent the message below to Michael Brown that you may be the lawyer I need to coordinate with.  Is that true? 
Michael: Please see message below in which Christopher Millard of Clifford Chance indicates that a project that CC is working on with Enron Europe may involve subscription to the Nextlaw subscription service.  Sharon Butcher and I are working on a project for Enron Corp. HR that requires research on data protection laws in the various countries in which Enron has employees.  It is likely that we will subscribe to Clifford Chance's Nextlaw service, a database of data protection legislation in various countries.  One of the advantages of Nextlaw is that it is a more cost-effective approach than engaging local counsel in each jurisdiction to provide the legal research, and subscribers are entitled to quarterly updates of the information on the database during the annual subscription period.  At the end of my message to Christopher, please see the list of countries that we need information about.  My guess is that any of the jurisdictions you need are covered.  If so, I would propose to Christopher that if (as I anticipate) Enron Corp. subscribes to Nextlaw for the project Sharon and I are working on, Enron Europe should be entitled to access and use the information for the other project Christopher references.  We certainly don't want Enron to pay for the subscription service twice! Please tell me which lawyer in your group I should include in discussions.  Thanks 
Hi, Linda.   I am not surprised; she sent me an email, too.  I was out on vacation last week, so I only gave Kim my feedback early this week.  I hope that ELM has received the response by now.  Let me know if I need to do anything else.  Michelle Linda Strahm@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 06/01/2000 07:47 AM 
Hi Michelle. Unfortunately, this issue with Eddie Lynn Morgan is still alive. I talked with Kim a few weeks ago and she mentioned that she sent her write-up to you for your review - before sending it to Eddie Lynn. Do you have a status update on when it will be ready to go to Eddie Lynn? Thanks Michelle! 
It has now been two weeks since Kim said she would send me a note and yet no response.  Perhaps now you can see my continued frustration with the lack of response to what I consider to be a very serious matter.   As you had suggested when we first talked, I would appreciate it if you would forward this to Kim's boss so that I can get a response. Lynn Morgan (503) 886-0668 (503) 816-0982 (cell) Enron Broadband Services 2100 SW River Parkway Suite 740A Portland, OR  97201 
I have not received anything from Kim. EL Morgan (503) 886-0668 (503) 816-0982 (cell) Enron Broadband Services 2100 SW River Parkway Suite 740A Portland, OR  97201 Linda Strahm 05/10/00 09:52 AM 
EL - I just spoke with Kim Melodick. As you indicated, she had not had an opportunity to provide you with the final outcome of the email investigation. She apologizes for this and will have a write up to you within 1 week from today. Let me know if you don't receive it by next Wednesday. thanks. 
great news! Hector McLoughlin 06/06/2000 01:55 PM 
FYI Raygayle turned in her signed separation agreement at 1:30 PM today.   She believes that she will most likely move to Philadelphia with her mother instead of pursuing other opportunities for re-hire at Enron. hgm 
__________________ Oops!  The location for the welcome coffee is EB38C2. See you there! 
Please join us for a Legal Department breakfast gathering on Friday, June 9, 2000 at 9:00 a.m. to welcome/honor the following: Samantha Boyd, Specialist - Welcome (office location:  EB3802A) Samantha Ferguson, Law Clerk - Welcome (office location:  EB3851A) Al Larsen, Sr. Counsel, (Portland office) - Welcome (temporary Houston office location:  EB3891) Matt Maxwell, Specialist (5 years) - Service Award (office location:  EB3875A) Bill Nealy, Law Clerk - Welcome Back (office location:  EB3852B) We look forward to seeing you there! 
Don't worry about it!  Of all people, I understand about schedules being tight.  Good luck with the post-trial work.  Michelle ""Eden Sholeen"" <esholeen@bracepatt.com> 06/07/2000 09:01 AM 
Sorry that I have not called.  We were gone the first weekend that you called and I worked this last weekend.  I am trying to get our JMOL and motion for new trial filed by this Friday.  I will call you this weekdend.  I am a little keyed up. Eden P. Sholeen Bracewell & Patterson, L.L.P. South Tower Pennzoil Place 711 Louisiana, Suite 2900 Houston, Texas 77002 (713) 221-1526 (713) 222-3221 fax esholeen@bracepatt.com 
I am available at 3:00 Wednesday.  I agree that we should convene and discuss.  I would be surprised if we have grounds to challenge, but we can keep our fingers crossed.  If we don't, then we could discuss strategy for negotiations.  Thanks.  Michelle ""Carroll, James"" <JCarroll@littler.com> on 12/04/2000 01:52:21 PM 
Vincente suggests a conference call Wednesday afternoon at 2:00 or 3:00pm, to discuss whether there are grounds to challenge the election and to discuss future strategy. He will be at the facility Wednesday morning and will have a report about what happened Friday and the possible grounds for an election challenge. I think this is a good idea,  Is it ok with you?  If so, is the time convenient? ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
Alan, I just called our counsel on this matter this morning to find out the status.  I believe that Cline has different counsel now, and I will find out about this asap.  Michelle Alan Aronowitz 06/08/2000 09:20 AM 
Michelle: Please look into this and speak with our Charleston counsel, and then apprise the people copied on this note. Thanks, Alan George McClellan 06/07/2000 10:45 PM 
Thanks Tom.  If he calls back tell him to speak with Alan. Tom Mcquade 06/07/2000 04:17 PM 
I was contacted by Cline's attorney who is handling the Clonch lawsuit.  He wants to depose Enron emploees with direct knowledge of the events leading up to suit filed by Clonch.  I told him that we will have an Enron lawyer contact him.  He is apparently in direct contact with the firm in Charleston representing us.  I will wait until we talk before contacting anyone regarding the matter. 
I don't know anything about this!  MC Richard B Sanders 06/08/2000 05:34 PM 
Do you know anything about this? 
Jim/Don, Do you know anything about this for Ecogas? Michelle Cash 
FYI - see Jerrel's response to my query below.  This is the first I've ever 
Kerry,  What are your thoughts on this issue? Michelle Michelle, We have had a couple of interpretations as to how to calculate the overtime for employees who receive a shift differential and wanted to ask for assistance from you.  The problem we are having deals with employees who rotate shift.  Please review the following scenario. For a simple example with an ee at $10/hour and shift of $1/hour for the Night (N) shift. M T W Th F S REG  8 8 8 8 8 OT       8 SHIFT  N N D D D D Interpretation 1 The shift differential would be added to his pay to determine the regular rate of pay and his pay would be calculated as follows: REG  $400 SHIFT       16 OT    124.80  ((400+16)/40) x 1.5) Interpretation 2 Since his overtime was during a day shift, his pay would be calculated as follows: REG  $400 SHIFT       16 OT    120.00 (400/40 x 1.5) Can you please let us know which interpretation is correct or if we have totally missed the boat on both of them? Thanks for your help, Diane 
David,  I am with you.  In fact, I sent this issue to outside counsel earlier this week because I simply wasn't able to get to it due to the issues surrounding the latest reorg/redeployment efforts.  I expect an answer by Monday or Tuesday.  Sorry I forgot to let you know about the status.  Michelle David O'Dell@ENRON 06/09/2000 09:45 AM 
Michelle, This is the first of 2 messages..   We have been trying to get a response on this since April, I understand you are very busy, as are we, is there someone you can assign to us to work on these issues?  Some type of response would be appreciated. Thanks - David 
Michelle, This is the first of 2 messages we are looking for your input on, can you advise when can we anticipate a response to Diane's questions?  At this point it is too late to make configuration changes for the 7/1 go-live but we wanted to get your feedback so that if we are not in compliance we can get the corrections on the schedule for post 7/1. Your assistance, as always,  is greatly appreciated. Thanks - David 
Michelle, Have you had a chance to look at this question?  We are needing to finalize the configuration and wanted to make sure that we had everything in line. Thanks, Diane 
Michelle, We have had a couple of interpretations as to how to calculate the overtime for employees who receive a shift differential and wanted to ask for assistance from you.  The problem we are having deals with employees who rotate shift.  Please review the following scenario. For a simple example with an ee at $10/hour and shift of $1/hour for the Night (N) shift. M T W Th F S REG  8 8 8 8 8 OT       8 SHIFT  N N D D D D Interpretation 1 The shift differential would be added to his pay to determine the regular rate of pay and his pay would be calculated as follows: REG  $400 SHIFT       16 OT    124.80  ((400+16)/40) x 1.5) Interpretation 2 Since his overtime was during a day shift, his pay would be calculated as follows: REG  $400 SHIFT       16 OT    120.00 (400/40 x 1.5) Can you please let us know which interpretation is correct or if we have totally missed the boat on both of them? Thanks for your help, Diane 
Twanda, could you please handle this if you haven't already?  Thanks!  M 
Please process Tim's request and forward to me. Thanks! 
Here is his form b date.  mhc 
FYI 
Twanda, please print.  Thanks.  MHC 
Michelle, John, Attached please find the draft check-list I prepared per your requests.  I utilized a variety of legal memorandums and topic reference in developing this.  In the many instances listed,  the consensus from both NEPCO and ECC should be paramount.  Please let me know if  there are topics you would clarify.  I believe we were going to attempt a joint discussion after receipt and review of this draft.   I have good availability for a conference discussion on: Thursday 6/1/2000 - through 6 PM PST Monday 6/5/2000 - 12 through 6 PM PST Thursday 6/8/2000  - 12 through 5 PM PST I will be trying to vacation in the interim periods.  Thanks,  I'll look forward to your comments.  Rj. 
Gerry, should Sharon Butcher and Kriste Sullivan be included in the distribution list?  I would think so, now that we are back to ""normal"" staff meetings.  Michelle Gerry Gibson@ENRON 06/08/2000 01:19 PM 
Hello Folks: Enclosed is the agenda for the June 12 HR Leadership Team Meeting. The meeting will run from 12:15 - 1:30 and be held in EB49C4. The call in number is 713-853-3233 conf. code: 6000. Regards, Gerry Gibson 
Gene, What is the status of the ProNexxus situation?  Have we received anything from them?  If not, they are very shortsighted! Michelle 
Mark, If this hasn't already taken place, I'd like to participate.  My assistant, Twanda Sweet, should have my calendar.  Also, FYI, Rick JOhnson will be in town at the end of the week if you want a face-to-face.  MHC Mark Greenberg@ENRON 12/03/2000 01:11 PM 
Dee, Jeff, Rick - I need to set up a meeting between the benefit group and the tax people to walk through the structure we want for the purchase of Project Crane.  We made a good bit of progress in Toronto over Thursday and Friday on the tax structure, but clearly indicated the need to confirm all of this in relation to benefit issues.  I would like to have the meeting on Monday sometime, but need to coordinate schedules.  As soon as possible, please advise me of your respective availabilities so that a meeting can be scheduled, keeping in mind the need to have Rick involved. Thanks. Mark Senior Counsel, ENA Phone:     713-345-8897 Facsimile: 713-646-3940 E-Mail:      Mark.Greenberg@enron.com 
FYI. 
I received a call from Gene Diers today about what he believes may be going on with changes to my Agreement for Project Services (""APS"") and how we operate.  There are business and legal reasons for the APS  being in the name of Enron Corp.  If we sell a company and the APS was in the name of a subsidiary, we would have to get the sold subsidiary to license the computer software to us.  Given the inability to determine this at the time everyone is pushing to sell the subsidiary, we could end up without any software or having to pay a substantial amount of money to the buyer later on when we discover the mistake.  Secondly, allowing all subsidiaries to negotiate different versions with vendors would be a nightmare and create five times the number of agreements to file.  I am opposed to this.  Every time we sell a company, the software has always been an issue.  We are as I told you 
Please print for me and put in my Japan file - please give me the file! Thanks. Michelle 
As discussed 
Here is the contract template, I will call you later with my comments. 
You have received a new fax from 0354498794 The image contains 16 page(s). 
WORK DESCRIPTIONS (LONG AND SHORT FORM) 
WORK DESCRIPTIONS (LONG AND SHORT FORM) I talked briefly to Carmen this morning about plans to revise the above agreements and associated arrangements for processing them. ] Since I am retiring on June 30, 2000, I have no territorial interest in what happens but I think I would be remiss if I didn't at least offer a couple of comments: 1.  Taking the agreements in the name of Enron Corp. while irksome to some has been effective.  It allows any/all commercial companies to reference an agreement.  This provides for consistency not only in the manner in which vendors treat different operating companies but also in the manner in which we treat different vendors.  I think it keeps vendors from employing a divide and conquer approach. 2.  The agreements need to be updated.  I know that there are some reasons for using two agreements, i.e., MASTER SERVICE AGREEMENT and AGREEMENT FOR PROJECT SERVICES, but I would vote for combining them if the problems could be worked out.  It's not that the current agreements are bad but there is some duplication, terms that are confusing, clauses that are missing, etc., all things that could be fixed rather easily. 3.   I don't see why the agreements couldn't be generalized somewhat to cover all kinds of professional services as opposed to just IT consulting. 4.  If commercial companies need/want to sign PWD's, why can't we work out an arrangement wherein the PWD is still subject to a Corporate master agreement but the commercial company signs and indemnifies the corporation, e.g., for anything that they might do on the PWD. I realize that nobody has asked me and maybe I don't really understand what it is that you are trying to accomplish in the modified processbut as I view it with from an overall Enron Corp., I am concerned that we might be chunking a methodology that has served us. 
__________________ Please put the following meeting on your calendar as a followup from today's meeting with Cindy. Time: 8:30 - 9:30 a.m. Location:  Cindy Olson's office 
Jane, I was not involved -- I think Sharon was.  Michelle Jane Allen 06/12/2000 12:01 PM 
Do either of you have a copy of Dennis Pick's employment agreement which contains the provisions of his severance?  The UK Inland Revenue is making inquiries and needs a copy. Jane 
Dear Jane I have just joined Enron, and will be assisting Tara Rozen and Madeline Fox with their expat work. We have recently had an enquiry from the UK Inland Revenue regarding Dennis Pick's termination payment.  They have asked that we supply them with a copy of Dennis's original contract of employment (we have the letter of assignment on file, but this is not sufficient for their enquiry). Do you know a contact who we could request the contract from? Thanks for your help. Victoria 
Twanda, if I am here, I would like to attend this lunch meeting.  Thanks. = =20 Michelle 
What are some legal issues we should be aware of as e Business/eTrade chang= e=20 our way to do business?   Do you know Lexis Search Advisor?  Please join Ed= =20 Chang, Lexis attorney for a Cyberlaw & Telecommunications presentation in= =20 Conference Room EB 47C2 on Tuesday, 6/20 from 12:00 noon to 1:30 PM.   Lexi= s=20 provides lunch.  R.S.V.P. to Sylvia Hu x36775 by noon, Monday (6/19).=20 Thanks, Sylvia Hu Corporate and Law Information Services x36775 Come discover LEXIS-NEXIS and it=01,s vast collection of information on=20 CYBERLAW and TELECOMMUNICATIONS Learn how to monitor the latest cases and legislation in these emerging are= as=20 of law. Find out what new cyberlaw journals=20 LEXIS-NEXIS has recently acquired. See how easy it is to locate FCC Cases,=20 FCC Licenses, PUC Decisions and Reports,=20 and Telecommunications News. Watch as LEXIS-NEXIS SEARCH ADVISOR practically does all of your research f= or=20 
FYI. Michelle 
What are some legal issues we should be aware of as e Business/eTrade chang= e=20 our way to do business?   Do you know Lexis Search Advisor?  Please join Ed= =20 Chang, Lexis attorney for a Cyberlaw & Telecommunications presentation in= =20 Conference Room EB 47C2 on Tuesday, 6/20 from 12:00 noon to 1:30 PM.   Lexi= s=20 provides lunch.  R.S.V.P. to Sylvia Hu x36775 by noon, Monday (6/19).=20 Thanks, Sylvia Hu Corporate and Law Information Services x36775 Come discover LEXIS-NEXIS and it=01,s vast collection of information on=20 CYBERLAW and TELECOMMUNICATIONS Learn how to monitor the latest cases and legislation in these emerging are= as=20 of law. Find out what new cyberlaw journals=20 LEXIS-NEXIS has recently acquired. See how easy it is to locate FCC Cases,=20 FCC Licenses, PUC Decisions and Reports,=20 and Telecommunications News. Watch as LEXIS-NEXIS SEARCH ADVISOR practically does all of your research f= or=20 
David,  I did keep these provisos in the final draft, which will come to you today.  Michelle David Oxley 06/13/2000 07:31 AM 
But the bonuses are still dependent on perf and company earnings? 
__________________ The HR Promotions Meeting has been changed to Thursday, June 15th from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. in 50M Dining Room.  Please plan to attend. If you are conferencing by telephone please dial 713/853-3233.  The passcode is 6500. Thank you 
WORK DESCRIPTIONS (LONG AND SHORT FORM) 
fyi.  michelle 
WORK DESCRIPTIONS (LONG AND SHORT FORM) I talked briefly to Carmen this morning about plans to revise the above agreements and associated arrangements for processing them. ] Since I am retiring on June 30, 2000, I have no territorial interest in what happens but I think I would be remiss if I didn't at least offer a couple of comments: 1.  Taking the agreements in the name of Enron Corp. while irksome to some has been effective.  It allows any/all commercial companies to reference an agreement.  This provides for consistency not only in the manner in which vendors treat different operating companies but also in the manner in which we treat different vendors.  I think it keeps vendors from employing a divide and conquer approach. 2.  The agreements need to be updated.  I know that there are some reasons for using two agreements, i.e., MASTER SERVICE AGREEMENT and AGREEMENT FOR PROJECT SERVICES, but I would vote for combining them if the problems could be worked out.  It's not that the current agreements are bad but there is some duplication, terms that are confusing, clauses that are missing, etc., all things that could be fixed rather easily. 3.   I don't see why the agreements couldn't be generalized somewhat to cover all kinds of professional services as opposed to just IT consulting. 4.  If commercial companies need/want to sign PWD's, why can't we work out an arrangement wherein the PWD is still subject to a Corporate master agreement but the commercial company signs and indemnifies the corporation, e.g., for anything that they might do on the PWD. I realize that nobody has asked me and maybe I don't really understand what it is that you are trying to accomplish in the modified processbut as I view it with from an overall Enron Corp., I am concerned that we might be chunking a methodology that has served us. 
Gracie, Based upon my brief review of her comments, many are not acceptable.  Without a convincing explanation, I am not going to delete entire sections of our agreement, particularly when those sections protect Enron.  Please get with her (not by copy of this privileged email) and ask for reasons why she wants the changes. Thanks.  Michelle Gracie S Presas 11/22/2000 08:42 AM 
Please see Paige's comments.  Let me know if any of this is not appropriate for us to change/add. In Section 2 Services b.  ....reproduction of books   (should not be included) Gracie 
Gracie, ? Here are my comments so  far on the contract you gave me last week. ? Paige - November 21.doc 
Mark, As I mentioned in my voice mail, here is a bullet-point synopsis of my accomplishments for the second half of 2000. Transaction Support Triple Lutz -- provided support for potential divestiture (e.g., data room, PSA review, direct negotiations with potential buyer, etc.). Project Crane -- monitored diligence, PSA review/comment, client discussions. Garden State Paper -- provided employment law advice on closing and transition issues. MG Metals -- handled issues surrounding termination of Rudolph Wolff employees, including separation agreements, negotiations with counsel, etc. Project Falcon -- reviewed diligence reports, client discussions. AMPS -- worked on diligence/transition issues. Project Inga -- provided PSA review, diligence support. Litigation No employee-initiated litigation has been filed this year. Non-compete litigation:  Jim Ajello (resolved); Alonzo Williams (pending -- employee went to work for TXU). Other litigation:  Marentz & Co. v. Enron (suit for non-payment of placement fee) -- pending; Rick Clonch v. Cline Resources, et. al (pending in West Virginia -- Cline is indemnifying Enron). Evan Lovell matter -- handled pre-litigation mediation filed by former First Point employee. Todd Richardson matter -- pre-litigation demand letter sent by employee working for Tom Martin; resolved through negotiation. Agreements 256 Employment agreements. 54 Consulting agreements. 104 Separation agreement/releases. Numerous retention letter agreements. Drafted new Agreement for Recruiting or Contract Personnel Services (to replace old Master Service Agreement and Agreement for Project Services) for use in hiring contract personnel through agencies as well as for use with recruiting firms (to be rolled out 1/1/01). Enron Investment Partners Incentive Compensation Plan -- supervised the drafting and execution of long-term incentive plan for EIP employees. Asset Support EcoElectrica -- supported company's campaign against union recognition. East Coast Power -- provided support on employment law matters, particularly terminations/separation documents. Ecogas -- gave litigation advice and wind-down support. CGAS -- provided employment advice/counsel, drafted employment agreements, arranged harassment training. Bridgeline -- prepared assignment letter agreements to assign Enron personnel to Bridgeline. Mariner -- assisted in negotiation of Mariner Change of Control Agreements. Training Conducted interview training for Net Works campus recruiting classes. Provided  training sessions on employment law risks for Energy Operations management personnel. Conducted employment law training for ENA Human Resources department. Conducted sessions on ethics and harassment prevention for New Hire Orientation approximately once a month. Investigations/Testing Issues Managed confidential investigation into issues raised in anonymous letters sent to Office of Chairman regarding Energy Operations.  Supervised work of outside consultants on the project and made recommendations to client on survey results. Supervised numerous investigations into allegations of harassment, computer hacking, discrimination, etc. Gave advice regarding pre-employment testing to be used in trading track and IT re-skilling program. Other Contributions Participated in Legal Technology Committee  -- proposed LegalOnline site name and worked with PR to create logo and tag line for web site. Participated in on-campus recruiting for Associate and Analyst Program at Wellesley College. Recently became EWS legal recruiting contact -- have met with most of OGC and will have a staffing plan finalized in the next week. Provided real-time legal review of HR-related E-Speak sessions. I haven't included what I consider to be routine responsibilities such as providing advice on employee relations issues, attending off-sites/staff meetings for Olson/Oxley, attending CLE, etc.  Let me know if you would like more information about these activities.  If you have any questions, or if you would like a summary of accomplishments from the first half of the year, let me know. Thanks. Michelle 
fyi.  michelle 
I received a call from Gene Diers today about what he believes may be going on with changes to my Agreement for Project Services (""APS"") and how we operate.  There are business and legal reasons for the APS  being in the name of Enron Corp.  If we sell a company and the APS was in the name of a subsidiary, we would have to get the sold subsidiary to license the computer software to us.  Given the inability to determine this at the time everyone is pushing to sell the subsidiary, we could end up without any software or having to pay a substantial amount of money to the buyer later on when we discover the mistake.  Secondly, allowing all subsidiaries to negotiate different versions with vendors would be a nightmare and create five times the number of agreements to file.  I am opposed to this.  Every time we sell a company, the software has always been an issue.  We are as I told you 
WORK DESCRIPTIONS (LONG AND SHORT FORM) 
fyi.  michelle 
WORK DESCRIPTIONS (LONG AND SHORT FORM) I talked briefly to Carmen this morning about plans to revise the above agreements and associated arrangements for processing them. ] Since I am retiring on June 30, 2000, I have no territorial interest in what happens but I think I would be remiss if I didn't at least offer a couple of comments: 1.  Taking the agreements in the name of Enron Corp. while irksome to some has been effective.  It allows any/all commercial companies to reference an agreement.  This provides for consistency not only in the manner in which vendors treat different operating companies but also in the manner in which we treat different vendors.  I think it keeps vendors from employing a divide and conquer approach. 2.  The agreements need to be updated.  I know that there are some reasons for using two agreements, i.e., MASTER SERVICE AGREEMENT and AGREEMENT FOR PROJECT SERVICES, but I would vote for combining them if the problems could be worked out.  It's not that the current agreements are bad but there is some duplication, terms that are confusing, clauses that are missing, etc., all things that could be fixed rather easily. 3.   I don't see why the agreements couldn't be generalized somewhat to cover all kinds of professional services as opposed to just IT consulting. 4.  If commercial companies need/want to sign PWD's, why can't we work out an arrangement wherein the PWD is still subject to a Corporate master agreement but the commercial company signs and indemnifies the corporation, e.g., for anything that they might do on the PWD. I realize that nobody has asked me and maybe I don't really understand what it is that you are trying to accomplish in the modified processbut as I view it with from an overall Enron Corp., I am concerned that we might be chunking a methodology that has served us. 
Gina, check with Erin Knouff.  I think she has it.  Michelle Gina Corteselli@ENRON 06/14/2000 10:11 AM 
Hi Michelle.  I am so sorry that i was unable to chat with you at last week's meeting with David.  I have a question regarding photos on the MD/VP biographic profiles (which will be provided at the VP/MD Global meetings on 31 July and 1 Aug. I am told that insofar as possible we should ensure photos are included on all the bio profiles-- but I also understand that there are legal considerations (i.e. we need to get employee concurrence to include the pictures). I gather that there is a disclaimer or consent form that the VP's and MD's will have to sign and wondered if you would have a copy of this consent form for me to use. Any info you can provide on this would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks in advance. Gina 
Philip,  have you had a chance to pull this information together for me?  Let me know when you think you might have it.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Philip, would you please gather information about Jynell Holliday.  I believe 
Thanks, Pat.  I am sending you a copy of the opinion, which I got from the Daily Labor Report.  Michelle FMackin@aol.com 06/12/2000 05:27 PM 
Ruling Helps Workers Prove Job Bias By RICHARD CARELLI .c The Associated Press WASHINGTON (June 12) - Workers who say their employers illegally discriminated against them can win lawsuits, or at least get their accusations to a jury, without direct evidence of intentional bias, the Supreme Court ruled Monday. The court's unanimous decision in an age-bias dispute from Mississippi could carry profound practical importance as well for lawsuits nationwide that charge employment discrimination based on race, sex and physical disabilities. The ruling was a huge setback for employers because some federal appeals courts routinely had dismissed lawsuits that lacked ''smoking gun'' evidence of employers' discriminatory intent. Monday's decision said circumstantial evidence often is enough to sue employers successfully. Employer organizations were disappointed. ''The bottom line is ... it may be tougher to get cases out of the hands of the jury,'' said Peter Petsch, a lawyer for the Society for Human Resource Management. ''In some jurisdictions, we're going to see more litigation ... which lasts longer, even for employers who did nothing wrong,'' he said. But Thomas Osborne, an AARP lawyer, praised the decision as a victory for the some 12 million over-50 workers who belong to his organization because it ''says employers no longer can lie about their personnel decisions and get away with it.'' ''The playing field is no longer slanted toward employers,'' Osborne said. In a series of employment-bias decisions, the nation's highest court has imposed various requirements on employees who say they were treated illegally. They must show they were subjected to adverse treatment and that the employer's asserted reason for such treatment was phony. But federal appeals courts have disagreed on a key point: whether employees who discredit an employer's stated reason must also offer proof of a discriminatory motive. Not always, the Supreme Court said Monday. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote that a federal appeals court wrongly relied on ''the premise that a plaintiff must always introduce additional, independent evidence of discrimination.'' ''Proof that the defendant's explanation is unworthy of credence is simply one form of circumstantial evidence that is probative of intentional discrimination, and it may be quite persuasive,'' she said. ''In appropriate circumstances, the trier of fact can reasonably infer form the falsity of the explanation that the employer is dissembling to cover up a discriminatory purpose.'' O'Connor said employees will not always be entitled to win a job-bias lawsuit after showing that an employer's explanation for their treatment was false. But she ruled that it was enough in the case of a Mississippi man who said age discrimination cost him his supervisory job at a toilet-seat manufacturing plant. Roger Reeves sued Sanderson Plumbing Products of Columbus, Miss., after he was fired in 1995 from his job as a hinge-department supervisor in the plant. Reeves, then 57, had worked at the plant for 40 years. His lawsuit invoked the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act, and a jury awarded him $70,000 in damages and $28,490 in lost pay. But the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals threw out that award after ruling that Reeves had not offered enough proof of illegal age bias. Reeves had been required to prove he was over 40 and therefore protected by the federal law, that he had been fired and replaced with someone younger. Such evidence amounted to what courts call a ''prima facie'' showing of discrimination. Sanderson Plumbing then was required to offer a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the firing. Once it did, the burden shifted back to Reeves to show that the stated reason was false. He also pointed to derogatory comments made about his age by a supervisor. Company officials said Reeves had been fired for falsifying time records but he showed that he had not. The jury apparently concluded that he succeeded in proving bias, but the appeals court said Reeves had to also offer proof that the company's decision was motivated by age bias. Monday's decision said the appeals court was wrong about that, and reinstated the jury's verdict. AP-NY-06-12-00 1522EDT Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. The information contained in the AP news report may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or otherwise distributed without the prior written authority of The Associated Press. All active hyperlinks have been inserted by AOL. 
Beth, do you really need me there?  I haven't been involved in KAFUS at all. I'll be happy to go if needed.  Michelle Beth A Ryan 06/14/2000 04:33 PM 
I would like to check availability on Wednesday, June 21 from 8:00am until 5:00pm for a KAFUS all hands meeting.  The topic is ALL issues regarding KAFUS included but not limited to: Commercial Legal Accounting Analyst Associates Tax Please advise if you will be available Wednesday, June 21 and names of others involved that should be included in this meeting. Thank you for your help. 
Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal EB 4861 
I think it would be neat to hear from George Bush or George W. Bush.  Thanks! eThink@ENRON Sent by: Enron Announcements@ENRON 06/15/2000 06:06 PM 
The eThink Team We want to hear from you!  The eThink Team is asking each Enron employee to submit one ""Dream eSpeaker"" suggestion for consideration to host an eSpeak session. Is there someone outside of Enron that you feel would have a valid audience inside Enron?  Or, is there someone at Enron you think we have overlooked thus far? E-mail your eSpeak wish to ethink@enron.com. 
Twanda, would you please handle this?  Thanks.  Michelle 
They must be hurting for business -- but I thought you might want to take a look at their site. L, T 
A message of ""holiday greetings"" from a JGS alum... Ashford.com (www.ashford.com) would like to offer the employees, students and alumni of Rice University a 20% discount off of the items on our site - just in time for the holidays! Whether you are looking a fantastic gift for a loved one, or the perfect corporate gift, you can now save 20% off Ashford.com's irresistible selection of luxury brands*. We have a vast collection of fine watches, vintage watches, pens, designer jewelry, sunglasses, ties, scarves, diamonds, handbags and leather goods - all just a click away. The e-coupon code is 6B368AAAAA - expiration date is 12/31/00, not good with any other promotional offers. Feel free to pass it along. Here are the details: To save the 20%, simply enter the coupon code on your online order form during checkout. *There are some restrictions on the coupon. It is not valid on loose diamonds, select jewelry items, fragrances, items on our Corporate Gifts site and gift certificates. Each coupon is only valid for one use per email. It is not valid with any other coupon, special, or promotion. And finally, it expires on December 31, 2000 - so act fast! HAPPY HOLIDAYS & HAPPY SHOPPING! Take care. Amy Oates Fitzgerald Director of Brand Marketing Ashford.com 713-369-2380 aoates@ashford.com 
Please prepare an executable employment agreement for Don Baughman. 
Twanda, would you please handle this?  Thanks.  mhc 
Please create an executable agreement for Miguel Garcia as soon as possible. 
Please print this and attachment.  Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
twanda, would you please print the email and the attachment for my review? Thanks.  mhc 
Hi Pam, Attached is an updated copy of the AESOP Program Participation Grid.  Felecia forwarded the voicemail to me from Melissa Laing.  She confirmed Nowa Sarznya and Trakya Elektrik's participation, but she did not confirm Enron's percent of ownership or whether they were consolidated or unconsolidated.  I also need information on Torpy Limited (EES) and Enron Energy Services Company Limited.  These  two companies were not listed in Secretariat.  I am still awaiting information from Belinda McGaughy on the Wind and Zond Companies. Do you want me to contact them again or will you handle it?  Please advise. Thanks -- LaQuitta 
Twadna, would you please print and then file Ecogas (not due diligence file) for me.  Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
Attached is my draft of what we discussed.  I'm trying to get w/ Bowen/Donahue to discuss ASAP and will keep you posted accordingly.  Let me know ASAP if you have any comments, edits, etc... Thanks for all your help today and thru all the other issues, etc...  It's been invaluable and I sincerely appreciate your patience as I learn more of how to deal with the legal aspects of all this. 
T;  please print this and any attachments and file under ""Japan -- Pre-Employment Testing.""  Thanks! 
Twanda, please print this and attachment.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Michelle: I got the answer to the voicemail message I left for you about which lawyer would be the contact for the Enron Europe countries for the new Enron employee stock option plan.  Jon Chapman will be responsible for Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Turkey (and any other Enron Europe countries that are added between now and December).  I assume you are the appropriate lawyer for Mexico.  (If not, please forward this message to the right lawyer, and cc me so that I know who it is!)  Please read the message below for an explanation of the first action item (due June 23rd).  The Mexico spreadsheet is contained in the file marked ""CALME AESOP"" at the  end of Jana's message. Thanks for your help! Kelly 
Jonathon: I was in a meeting this morning concerning the new Enron employee stock option plan that will be implemented at the end of this year, and Melissa Laing (who participated by telephone) informed me that you were the lawyer to support Enron Europe HR on this project.  I recently joined the Enron Corp. legal staff from Enron International legal.  My role in this project is to coordinate the international legal support for the new option plan.  As such, I have contacted lawyers in various international business units to work with local counsel in each of the countries in which Enron has employees who will participate in the plan, to ensure that the plan does not run afoul of any legal restrictions.  Based on current information (which is likely to change between now and December, per Melissa Laing), the relevant countries in the Enron Europe group are Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Turkey.  In the attachment labeled ""asiapac"" at the end of Jana Domke's message, you will find spreadsheets for all five of the Enron Europe companies.  Please review 
If you attended the recent AESOP meeting, you are aware that the approval for establishing an Enron AESOP 2000 Program was granted by the Executive Committee on April 6, 2000.  In most instances, the plan design replicates the prior Plan parameters.  However, on an international basis, there have been numerous regulatory and legislative changes which may impact this program. Attached are individual Country Summary Highlights which consolidate the various accounting/tax/legal/banking/human resource, etc. details and issues into one document.  This consolidated document is based not only on information gleaned from the previous AESOP inplementation, but it also reflects the most recent local tax changes - at least based upon the information we have here. Because successful Plan implementation and rollout is predicated upon solid information, understanding and interpretation, we need your assistance. Please coordinate review of the your appropriate country documents with your local financial, legal, tax and/or other professionals, as required.  We want 
Jennifer, Thanks for the email.  Cameron is great.  He loves his new school, even though it is not as ""working parent friendly"" as Cathedral House was. Cameron also loves fire engines (and ambulances, and tow trucks, and bulldozers and ..... ).  We took Cameron to the Bellaire EMS Open House a few weeks ago.  He got to climb all over the fire engines and even get into the driver's seat and ""drive.""   They also handed out plastic fireman's hats. He had a blast! I look forward to having you back on 36;  I'm moving there as soon as they get my phone/computer set up -- I'll spend half days there. See you later. Michelle Jennifer Milligan 06/13/2000 03:24 PM 
Michelle, Thanks for continuing to include me on these mailing lists - We are still snowed under on the PEP team (feedback ends on Friday and everyone has waited until the last minute...), but I hope to attend these information sessions after the Mid Year process is concluded. How is Cameron?  Jack is turning 4 in two weeks and I can't believe how quickly time passes.  He is obsessed with fire engines and we are visiting a fire station for his birthday.  I am now the resident expert on fire safety and hydrant locations... I feel rather isolated off in Allen Center, but we will return to civilization in August, so perhaps we can meet for lunch. Thanks, Jennifer 
Earline, The questions are as follows: 1.  Has Enron provided Ecogas with such coverage for its non-Enron board members so far? 2.  What is the general scope of such coverage? Ecogas is a stand-alone company.  Enron owns about 85 percent of its stock and has three people on its Board. I hope that helps. Michelle Earline Kendall 06/14/2000 10:19 AM 
OOps there were about 4 emails from Jim Bouillion that were forwarded to me on this matter.  Apparently I picked up the wrong name.  It is Jerrel Branson that is seeking coverage under Enron's D&O.  The same questions apply only change the name to Jerrel Branson.    We just need to know the chain of ownership to answer.  The Enron D&O policy is very broad. Thanks and sorry for adding to the confusion on this coverage question. Earline Kendall 6/14 
Your email to Jim Bouillion regarding coverage for Ron Maffett  of ECOGASA has been forwarded to me for handling.  Teddy Ward, retired June 1.  I am her successor as manager of the D&O coverages.  Please provide additional information to further my research into the D&O coverages. Is Enron North America the owner of ECOGAS If so what is the % ownership Is Randal Maffett an Enron employee or is he an outside director/officer. We do cover outside directors but it depends on our ownership interest and if we manage it Thanks,  Earline Kendall 
More of what was sent this morning. 
Jim/Don, Do you know anything about this for Ecogas? Michelle Cash 
FYI - see Jerrel's response to my query below.  This is the first I've ever 
Cheryl, Thanks so much for extending your business trip to visit us in Houston.  I had a blast with you being here. I hope that you didn't get sick -- I'd feel awful if you did.  I still have the sniffles, but managed to avoid the worst of it (so far).  Cameron perked right up after the antibiotics kicked in.   He is his usual self today (happily -- he was kind of a pest this weekend --  you really saw him at his worst, unfortunately).  We watched How the Grinch Stole Christmas today on the Cartoon Network, and he was happy as can be. I hope you can manage the February trip and weren't frightened off by the rough time here last weekend.  When we're not sick, we're really much more fun!!  Besides, the pig races await. gotta go. 
Shelly, because he should have received this much sooner, we should hand deliver the check as soon as we get it from AP if it is not done through direct deposit.   If it is, then mailing the pay advice is ok.  Thanks. Michelle Shelly Pierce@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 06/15/2000 01:13 PM 
Carmen - As discussed, please request an Accounts Payable Check for William Craig Falbaum for his vacation balance as of the date of his termination which was June 5, 2000.  We need to provide Craig this check (or pay advice if he had direct deposit), as soon as possible.    Once you receive this check, please mail to Craig at his home address, on the system, return receipt requested. The address shown in the system should be listed in Bellaire. Please let me know today when you expect to receive the check.  Also, could you please follow-up with me after the check has been received and mailed. Thank you so much for your assistance!  If you should have any questions, please feel free to contact me. Thanks, Shelly X57962 
Hector, Where are we with regard to the investigation into this matter?  I know that you've got a lot going on, and I didn't want that one to fall through the cracks. Thanks a lot! 
Privileged and Confidential In our meeting on Friday, we talked about the summary of complaints that you three are going to do.  If possible, I would like to receive those by Tuesday night so that they can be reviewed on Wednesday.  We are meeting with Beck/Olson on Thursday. Let me know if that is impossible -- I know you all are swamped with zillions of other things! Thanks. 
This works for me. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 
This is a test.  This is only  a test. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
Pacific Resources 
Pat, fyi re:  Evan Lovell's claim.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Pacific Resources I spoke with Keith Fullenweider at V&E regarding PGE's discharge of liabilities, and whether or not a consent would be required from Sierra Pacific Resources pursuant to Section 5.14 of the Stock Purchase Agreement. He agreed that settlement of this type of liability by PGE in the amounts discussed would not be material to PGE (even settlements with a broader group of individuals).  Payments made by PGE prior to the closing should not have any impact on Sierra's ownership of PGE or the value of PGE after closing. Enron has the right to dividend net income out of PGE before closing (up to certain limits).  Payment of liabilities would probably reduce the amount that Enron could dividend before closing.  Its not clear whether or not  the materiality standard was intended to be material to PGE and PGH II taken as a whole.  The amounts could be material to PGH II, but we assume that this would not be paid out of PGH II. I believe that the benefit plan at issue here is sponsored by Portland General Holdings, Inc.  That entity is not being sold to Sierra Pacific Resources.  I do not know whether or not there will be any employees that participate in that plan after PGE and PGH II are sold to Sierra.  Sierra will cause a new plan with similar benefits to be adopted at the time of the sale for PGE and PGH II employees.  I suppose that the plan sponsored by Portland General Holdings, Inc. might be terminated following the sale of PGE. Please call me if you have further questions regarding the Stock Purchase 
Pacific Resources 
Dale, here it is.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Pacific Resources I spoke with Keith Fullenweider at V&E regarding PGE's discharge of liabilities, and whether or not a consent would be required from Sierra Pacific Resources pursuant to Section 5.14 of the Stock Purchase Agreement. He agreed that settlement of this type of liability by PGE in the amounts discussed would not be material to PGE (even settlements with a broader group of individuals).  Payments made by PGE prior to the closing should not have any impact on Sierra's ownership of PGE or the value of PGE after closing. Enron has the right to dividend net income out of PGE before closing (up to certain limits).  Payment of liabilities would probably reduce the amount that Enron could dividend before closing.  Its not clear whether or not  the materiality standard was intended to be material to PGE and PGH II taken as a whole.  The amounts could be material to PGH II, but we assume that this would not be paid out of PGH II. I believe that the benefit plan at issue here is sponsored by Portland General Holdings, Inc.  That entity is not being sold to Sierra Pacific Resources.  I do not know whether or not there will be any employees that participate in that plan after PGE and PGH II are sold to Sierra.  Sierra will cause a new plan with similar benefits to be adopted at the time of the sale for PGE and PGH II employees.  I suppose that the plan sponsored by Portland General Holdings, Inc. might be terminated following the sale of PGE. Please call me if you have further questions regarding the Stock Purchase 
Please handle.  Thanks.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Please generated 2 executable employment agreements for Anna Santucci. Anna's form ""B"" date is June 19, 2000.  Her start date is June 19, 2000 as 
Trey, it looks like I may have to be in Portland for a mediation on July 27 -- with travel on the 26th and the 28th.  Are you planning to be gone then, too?  If not, I'll schedule this trip (wanna join me with CAC and spend the weekend?). I hope you are having fun and not working too hard.  Don't worry too much about me.  Gwyn is coming over to join us for dinner tonight, and Kay is dropping by tomorrow -- she offered to watch Cameron if I needed to do stuff.  I do miss you, though. L, M ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
Mandy,  Jane's language looks good.  I would add one thing at the end:  ""Of course, receipt of an H1B visa transfer and/or permanent resident status will depend on whether the INS approves those applications.""  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Amanda Curless@ENRON 06/19/2000 06:40 PM 
Michelle, This is the verbage that Jane gave me for the green card issue Gary Buck talked to you about. Please approve and let me know if we need to make any changes. Thanks! Mandy 
Molly, my meeting with Carlos is at 3:30 on Friday.  Thanks.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
I'll be happy to review it; please send it to me.  mhc ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Hector McLoughlin 06/20/2000 09:04 AM 
Michelle, Tim O'Rourke developed the performance agreement form for our group to use 
__________________ There will NOT be a  HR Team Leaders Meeting this Wednesday, June 21. Instead,  it will take place this Friday, June 23, 2000 in EB3637. In the future, the meetings  will be held every Wednesday from 11:30-1:00. If you will not be able to attend this upcoming  meeting please inform me by Thursday, June 22. Thanks, 
Twanda, we need to revise Shankman's contract as described below.  Thanks a lot!!  Michelle  (Memo to Oxley) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Can you update draft and let me have a copy? Thanks 
David, Lets move forward!  Approved by Jeff. Thanks! MAry David Oxley@ECT 06/16/2000 02:37 PM 
Mary, I spoke with Dave and Mark above below and have concluded that we would like to go back to him with following offer. Before we do so can you make sure this is OK with ENE OTC; Offered   His Counter  Proposed Compromise Contract Term  2 years   Happy for 3  leave at 2 Base   $250   Agreed   No change $275 2/1/01 S/O Equity  None   $500k options  None Bonus   $1.25mmTarget  $1.5mm Target(for 00) $1.5mmTarget (for 00) $1.25mm Target (for 01) $1.25mm Target (for 01) ENE LTI   $1.25mmTarget  $1.5mm Target (for 00) $2mm Target (for 00) $1.25mm Target (for 01) $1.25mm Target (for 01) All targets for top 25% performance. David 
Dawn, I have not seen a request form for his contract.  I believe that Teresa Bien was working on it with Mark Haedicke.  I am copying her on this email so that if I am mistaken, she can let me know. Thanks. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Dawn Doucet 06/21/2000 10:01 AM 
What's the status, Michelle?  Peter was asking yesterday - I told him we might have something to him this week - was I lying?? 
Here it is, you nabe.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
OK, so maybe I haven't kept in touch lately - but there's a pretty good reason for it.  I've been working for a new company called SmartPrice.com, and we've been pushing hard to get our web site launched.    Now that we've officially launched, I want to make sure my friends are the first to come by and use it.  You can find us at http://www.smartprice.com/. We deliver all of the information you need to make smart long distance choices.  All you need to do is come to our site, give us a little information about your calling habits, and we'll find you the best deal. The best news is: our service is free. Now that you know what's been keeping me so busy, I hope you'll come to the site and start saving money.  I think you'll find it's worth it - so far, our customers have saved an average of 30% on their long distance bills by using our service. As I mentioned, our site is fairly new.  We're really interested in learning as much as possible, and this is where we can use your help.  If you have suggestions or comments once you've come by the site, please send them to feedback@smartprice.com.  The more we learn, the better we can make our site.  (Also, we're breaking in our customer care processes, so if you're going through the site and have questions, please give us a call at 1-877-550-5317.) Thanks! Jeff Jeff Hoogendam - President & CEO SmartPrice.com, Inc. 
Dave, I am available the 27th for mediation in the Evan Lovell case.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
Margaret,  thanks.  My title, FYI, is Assistant General Counsel for Enron North America Corp.  Thanks.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Margaret Daffin 06/23/2000 12:22 PM 
Michelle:  for your information. Margaret 
Attention:  Mary May Wong: Mary:  further to our telephone conversation this morning, I have received notification from Jane Allen that all invoices to Enron regarding immigration matters need to be sent to Michelle Cash, prior to processing for payment. Therefore, please send them directly to: Michelle H Cash General Counsel Enron Corp. 1400 Smith Street EB3823 Houston, TX 77002 Many thanks Margaret 
Twanda, Would you please juggle the rest of my calendar to accommodate this?  I've got two meetings at that time to reschedule -- try Wednesday, or with Amy on Tuesday morning.  Thanks a lot! Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
This is to confirm the time, place and attendees for the meeting w/Mariner: 
Dee, what do you think?  I suggest that we let them handle that, but defer to your opinion.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Sheila, do you think we should meet with Rick Buy about this?  Or, should we talk about it without Rick and then respond accordingly?  The bottom line is, that the non-compete probably should stay as is, even in the case of RAC. Let's discuss.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
I have reviewed the proposed contract and have the following comments: 1) The numbers appear acceptable but only in context with the rest of my comments 2) The language is such as to even give an illusion that I could act in an independent and objective manner 3) There is no consideration given for the obligations to not compete, solicit customers and employees, and speak harsh words 4) The length of the non-compete is ludicrous, i.e. it is so long that it makes no sense for Enron to pay someone for it and the marginal 6 months adds very   little incremental protection to Enron from a competition perspective.  This might be appropriate for a member of the Executive Committee. Let me go into some more detail on the above. Point #2 All of Senior Management has told outside constituents (The Board, Shareholders, Investment Analysts, Rating Agencies, Regulatory Agencies, Banks and Counterparties) that the RAC Group is independent of the Business Units.  That is, given that our job is to provide objective analysis of the business activities, it has provided great comfort to these interested parties that our judgment is not influenced by the people who are taking risk on behalf of the firm.  Individual compensation is the foundation of this independence.  These parties have made judgments to provide capital (dollar or otherwise) to us based on the knowledge that this group in this independent configuration exists and is effective.  It has been specifically cited in reports as a strength and we are asked to make dozens of presentations each year to that effect.   This is especially true in the Market Risk function because, unlike other transactions in the firm, there is no analysis and approval chain for risk taking other than coarse buckets and the valuation, direction, and volatility are so opaque.  Independence is a cornerstone of the G-30 recommendations on derivatives.  I believe that these parties are much more concerned with what they can't see as opposed to what they can. I believe that our claim to have an independent function would be jeopardized if my bonus were a function of earnings targets and a PRC full of trading MD's. This should be a simple guaranteed minimum. Point #3 If Enron wants the right to keep me on the shelf for up to 12 months, then Enron needs to pay for it.  While I understand that sign on bonuses and retention bonuses are discouraged, I have firm evidence that low level commercial people are receiving both without any senior management approval. The amount should approximate the market price for the job (all in) for the period of the non-compete.  This follows to point #4 - I don't expect anyone to pay me such additional amounts equal to my ""target"" compensation for 12 months ($500,000!!!!).   The right answer is to shorten the non-compete to a maximum of 6 months and pay me for that.  I think that it would be equally stupid for Enron to not have the right to put me on the shelf for a considerable period of time given that I have and must continue to have complete access to all positions, p&l and the underlying contracts.   I would consider giving Enron the option (for a smaller premium) to have me non-compete which, if exercised, would trigger a larger payment. There are some other smaller points that I have discussed with Sheila Walton which can be addressed later. Please give your consideration to these items asap as I my old contract has expired. Ted 
Hector, what is this all about?  MHC ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Hector McLoughlin 06/21/2000 12:35 PM 
FYI.   hgm 
Dawn,  did we ever ascertain whether Duke is being sued for fraud based upon his alleged conduct?  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Dawn Doucet 06/26/2000 09:51 AM 
Hi Michelle, we've finished our due diligence on John Guerriero from Duke.  I didn't speak to his references but Paul DeVries did and he and Rob Milnthorp are both satisfied that there were no earlier occurrences of the legal situation that is unfolding now (or other signs of incompetence or lack of judgement).  John is being courted by several companies right now and they want to get an offer to him today.  Just wanted to let you know where we were on this one.... 
Twanda, please print and then file -- GM/Labor Union ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Attached for your review is an assessment of the General Motors RFP.  I focused on specifics related to labor unions, construction, and operations. Please call if further reviews or clarifications are desired.  I will be prepared to support your efforts and  determinations as this opportunity is developed.  I have received the two UAW collective bargaining agreements however, it would be premature to tackle those documents until Enron O&M objectives are defined.  The opportunity to support pre-construction PLA discussions, in concert with GM, should be anticipated Regards,  Rj. 
T:  Please print this and attachment -- file in Japan file.  Thanks.  MHC ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle- Pursuant to my voicemail, I am forwarding the attached e-mail traffic for your consideration.  I am unsure as to the types of testing contemplated, but want to ensure that such activities are permitted under Enron's policy. Your comments on the attached agreement would also be appreciated. Thanks, John 
Hi John Enron will be using PDI in Tokyo for candidate abilities testing prior to employment.  The outcome of the testing is a confidential report that comes to me (as HR) and I then send to the participant(s) in the recruitment decision making process for their confidential consumption.  PDI have agreed to me doing this via email, however are seeking some reassurance as to our use of and maintenance of confidentiality of the final product.  Can you review the attached and come back to me with your thoughts?  I would also appreciate a local (Japan) opinion on the legal issues associated with abilities/psych testing prior to employment (I know you guys shy away from it in the US although it is quite widely accepted ""down under""). Thanks and regards Phil 
Phil, With the e-mail transmission (using .pdf files), we'll need you or someone else in Enron to sign a document similar to the attached letter. Please read it and let me know if you want to make any changes before we fill in all the details. Thanks very much, Douglas - emailrelease.doc 
T:  Would you please print and file in Japan file?  Thanks.  MHC ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle Alan responded to this with copies to you and John Viverito -and I've lost it. If you still have the email, could I ask a big favour and ask you to forward it to me. Appreciate it! 
Alan As discussed. 1)Text from B&M document on labour law relating to contract duration states Quote The term of an employment contract can be indefinite. However, if an employment agreement provides for a definite term, such term may not exceed: a) one year, or b) 3 years in regard to agreements with any of the following types of employee: i) a new employee with special expertise, techniquew or experience designated by the MOL which is necessary for research or developement of new products, new services, or new technologies; ii).a new employee with special expertise, techniquew or experience designated by the MOL which is necessary for services that are rendered to efffect start-up, change, expansion, scale down or discontinuation of a business and that are expected to be completed within a specific period.. Unquote I seek clarification as to whether we can obtain MOL approval that our senior Japanese (say Director level) staff can be categorized under b). Thanks for your assistance 
Michael, I met Amy today and look forward to working with her.   Thanks for the heads up about her arrival here in the States. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Fiona Lavelle 05/25/2000 05:43 AM 
I understand that Amy Fitzpatrick will be moving from Enron Europe to Portland in the near future as her husband is relocating back to the states. As you will no doubt be dealing with Amy going forward, I thought I would let you know that she has worked extensively with myself and Jon Chapman and is also the HR rep for the Legal Department in Europe.  She has done an outstanding job and is an absolute pleasure to work with, so we are very disappointed to lose her.  However, our loss is your gain and I have asked her to look you up when she goes to Houston. Speak to you soon. Michael 
Charla, congrats and all the best in your new role.  I know you will enjoy the opportunity!  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Charla Reese@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 06/26/2000 05:36 PM 
Friends & Colleagues As a result of the recent restructuring of Human Resources and Enron's innovative redeployment efforts, I would like to let you know that I am now a member of the Community Relations group!  I am very excited about this new and challenging opportunity as Manager of Enron Corp.'s Special Events. In addition to creatively exploring new ways of getting employees involved, I'll also be focusing on how we can align our activities with efforts to attract / retain top talent, while at the same time, leveraging our initiatives in the community and maintaining a global perspective. My new contact details are provided below: Location: EB416 Phone:  713.853.5202 Fax:  713.646.3612 I'll be looking for ways we can all work together so consider this fair warning!   Hope you are all doing well & please stay in touch!! Charla x35202 
Jim, Thanks for this.  Would you please let me know how much we owe?  Would you like to join us for the game?  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. ""Bensfield, James"" <JBensfield@milchev.com> 06/27/2000 08:58 AM 
Michelle:  You have 6 seats for the Orioles-White Sox game on Monday evening, August 14.  These are the ""firm seats"" that I mentioned -- along the third baseline above the visitor's dugout.  Game time is 7:35 p.m.  I'll send the tickets down to you in the next day or two.  Have fun! 
FYI. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle:  You have 6 seats for the Orioles-White Sox game on Monday evening, August 14.  These are the ""firm seats"" that I mentioned -- along the third baseline above the visitor's dugout.  Game time is 7:35 p.m.  I'll 
Here are others who want to interview Carlos.  I tell you what -- before you schedule any of these, let me talk with Carlos first to see where his interests lie.  Keep these names, and I'll keep you posted on who to schedule with him.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Dan Rogers and I would each like to meet with Carlos for a potential position with EGM. Could you arrange? Alan Michelle Cash 12/04/2000 10:04 PM 
Attached is the resume of Carlos Sole, who currently is working for EECC.  He is interested in pursuing opportunities within EWS, and we received excellent references about his work performance from John Schwartzenburg and Kay Mann. I am meeting with him on Friday of this week (he is out of town until then). If you have an interest in talking with him, let me know, and I will arrange a meeting. Thanks.  Michelle 
Trey, FYI.  MHC ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Jim, Thanks for this.  Would you please let me know how much we owe?  Would you like to join us for the game?  Michelle ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. |--------+------------------------> |        |          ""Bensfield,   | |        |          James""        | |        |          <JBensfield@mi| |        |          lchev.com>    | |        |                        | |        |          06/27/2000    | |        |          08:58 AM      | |        |                        | |--------+------------------------> >--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -| | | 
| >--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -| Michelle:  You have 6 seats for the Orioles-White Sox game on Monday evening, August 14.  These are the ""firm seats"" that I mentioned -- along the third baseline above the visitor's dugout.  Game time is 7:35 p.m.  I'll send the tickets down to you in the next day or two.  Have fun! 
Jim, If you are sure you don't want reimbursement, then thanks a lot!!!  I hope that you both can join us.  If not, let's plan on another arrangement.  We are planning to stay at the Doubletree Suites in/near Georgetown (apparently, it is close to the Watergate).  It was way less expensive than the Embassy Suites we discussed the other day (approx. $100 per night!).  We are renting a car, though, so we can get around wherever we need to -- or, of course, we can take the Metro. Talk to you later. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. ""Bensfield, James"" <JBensfield@milchev.com> 06/27/2000 11:31 AM 
Jim, Thanks for this.  Would you please let me know how much we owe?  Would you like to join us for the game?  Michelle ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. |--------+------------------------> |        |          ""Bensfield,   | |        |          James""        | |        |          <JBensfield@mi| |        |          lchev.com>    | |        |                        | |        |          06/27/2000    | |        |          08:58 AM      | |        |                        | |--------+------------------------> >--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -| | | 
| >--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -| Michelle:  You have 6 seats for the Orioles-White Sox game on Monday evening, August 14.  These are the ""firm seats"" that I mentioned -- along the third baseline above the visitor's dugout.  Game time is 7:35 p.m.  I'll send the tickets down to you in the next day or two.  Have fun! 
Dear Gretchen: Wow!  You are thinking ahead!  What is a Leap Pad?  Is it something computer related? I have never heard of it. On our end, we have planned a trip to DC to visit Madison in August -- nice and hot by then.  We just got word that we have tix to the Orioles game while we are there, so that is good.  We got new furniture in the living room -- a chocolate brown suede/leather sofa and chair/ottoman.  It amplified the need for bright art in that room -- to the galleries and starving artists sales we go! Stay cool -- Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. ""wpcashjr"" <wpcashjr@email.msn.com> 06/27/2000 03:43 PM 
Hi!? The heat has gotten to us!? We are  thinking Christmas.? We would like to give C a Leap Pad if he doesn't have  one and you and T think it would be appropriate.? The item is for ages 4  and up but we do not think C is too young for it and hopefully it will get him  to read more.? Nothing exciting happening here.? Just waiting, waiting  for furniture, materials, etc.? Takes forever as you well know.?  What's happening your end?? G? 
Don,  I tried to call you this evening, but unfortunately missed you.  I am available in the afternoon tomorrow.  Please call my assistant, Twanda Sweet, to confirm a time.  Her extension is 3-9402.  Thanks.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Don Miller 06/27/2000 04:17 PM 
Michelle, I was given your name as a contact to discuss the HR/Labor issues for creating a JV.  We are evaluating a JV for our Merchant Generation, and need to talk through a number of issues with you.  I am available any time tomorrow.  Please let me know your availability. Thanks, Don 3-0492 
Rhonna, you know there's an espeak with Cindy Olson on Friday at 10:00, right?  Perhaps that should be advertised in the floor meeting . . . . Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Rhonna Palmer 06/27/2000 06:20 PM 
There will be a HR floor meeting on Friday morning, June 30 beginning at 8:30.  Please come to EB3676A.  Your attendance is appreciated.  Breakfast will be provided. 
__________________ There will be a HR floor meeting on Friday morning, June 30 beginning at 8:30.  Please come to EB3676A.  Your attendance is appreciated.  Breakfast 
Trey,  Unfortunately, I do not know of any position at Enron that would be available.  I think that Bracewell may be looking for people, as might Littler, Mendelson.  I hope that helps. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Trey Cash@ENRON 06/27/2000 05:04 PM 
Do you know of any such opportunities? Trey 
Trey, I have a friend that is a 5th year lawyer who has 4 years of labor and employment experience with a large law firm and a labor boutique firm (both here in town)- this person has asked me if Enron might have a need for a labor and employment lawyer with these kind of credentials.  Would you pretty please ask your wife if she is aware of any potential opportunities. Thanks - Tara 
Brian, Would you or someone in your group please investigate the allegations raised by Janeth Rodriguez-Philhower?  Based upon her voice mail message, there is a strong possibility of litigation.  Your investigation into her allegations thus would be conducted in anticipation of litigation. Once you have conducted the investigation, please provide me with the results. Thank you. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
T:  Please print this and attachments.  Thanks.  MHC ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Attached are revised drafts of the Purchase and Sale Agreement relating to Garden State Paper Company, Inc., one of which has been marked to show changes from the prior draft (6/16/00) distributed to you. Please recognize that this draft is being distributed prior to the completion of Enron's due diligence review.  In particular, bracketed provisions merit further discussion and/or review.  Please contact us with your comments at 713-287-2004 or 713-287-2066. Sincerely, Benjamin G. Clark and George T. Lee This e-mail, including attachments, contains information that is confidential and it may be protected by the  attorney/client or other priviliges.  This e-mail, including attachments, constitutes non-public information intended to be conveyed only to the designated recipient(s).  If you are not an intentded recipient, please delete this e-mail, including attachments, and notify me by return mail, e-mail or at 713-287-2066.  The unauthorized use, dissemination, distribution or reproduction of this e-mail, including attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.  George T. Lee, gtlee@llgm.com. - Purchase.DOC - Purchas1.DOC 
Thanks for the description.  Last night, I asked Trey about it, and we went onto Amazon.com to look at it.  It looks like a cool toy that Cameron would enjoy.  FYI:  the price at Amazon was way less than the price at etoys.  As a matter of fact, I told Trey that it would be great to have it for our trip to DC in August!  But, we can wait til Christmas, so go ahead with your plans. Congrats on the furniture.  I am sure that you will be happy with it and will love the new look. See ya.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. ""wpcashjr"" <wpcashjr@email.msn.com> 06/27/2000 09:11 PM 
Leap pad looks like an open book when placed in a child's lap.  There is an attached pen type instrument which the child can use to point to various things on the pages and also to indicate whether he/she would like the word to be pronounced, spelled or sounded.  It comes with a book but other books can be purchased to be placed in the pad.  That's the best description I can give since I have never used one.  Check it out when you go to the toy store.  Good news - several pieces of our living/dining  room furniture are being delivered tomorrow with all new coordinated materials!  Happy art looking.  It is fun to look for things to brighten up a room.  G 
Alan, he's out of town until Friday, so I will schedule early next week with you and Dan.  Others are interested as well, so we'll probably have a full interview schedule with him.  Thanks for the quick response.  Michelle Alan Aronowitz 12/05/2000 10:46 AM 
Dan Rogers and I would each like to meet with Carlos for a potential position with EGM. Could you arrange? Alan Michelle Cash 12/04/2000 10:04 PM 
Attached is the resume of Carlos Sole, who currently is working for EECC.  He is interested in pursuing opportunities within EWS, and we received excellent references about his work performance from John Schwartzenburg and Kay Mann. I am meeting with him on Friday of this week (he is out of town until then). If you have an interest in talking with him, let me know, and I will arrange a meeting. Thanks.  Michelle 
FYI; I forgot to cc you!  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Thanks for the description.  Last night, I asked Trey about it, and we went onto Amazon.com to look at it.  It looks like a cool toy that Cameron would enjoy.  FYI:  the price at Amazon was way less than the price at etoys.  As a matter of fact, I told Trey that it would be great to have it for our trip to DC in August!  But, we can wait til Christmas, so go ahead with your plans. Congrats on the furniture.  I am sure that you will be happy with it and will love the new look. See ya.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. ""wpcashjr"" <wpcashjr@email.msn.com> 06/27/2000 09:11 PM 
Leap pad looks like an open book when placed in a child's lap.  There is an attached pen type instrument which the child can use to point to various things on the pages and also to indicate whether he/she would like the word to be pronounced, spelled or sounded.  It comes with a book but other books can be purchased to be placed in the pad.  That's the best description I can give since I have never used one.  Check it out when you go to the toy store.  Good news - several pieces of our living/dining  room furniture are being delivered tomorrow with all new coordinated materials!  Happy art looking.  It is fun to look for things to brighten up a room.  G 
Brian, THANK YOU for taking a role in the rotation!!  Let me know if you need help with the script.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Attached is the REVISED presentation schedule for July 2000 to December 2000. Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal 1400 Smith, EB 4861 Houston, TX  77002 (713) 853-7557 (713) 646-5847 Fax KSulliv@Enron.com 
Trey, would you please print this for me at home?  Thanks.  M ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Attached is the REVISED presentation schedule for July 2000 to December 2000. Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal 1400 Smith, EB 4861 Houston, TX  77002 (713) 853-7557 (713) 646-5847 Fax KSulliv@Enron.com 
FYI.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Please make copies of the attached and substitute it for the old Form B in new hire packets.  I am also working with Forms Management to put it in their book so you can order a supply. If you have questions about the form, please call Kriste Sullivan at the number below. 
Below please find the distribution list for the Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Rights Agreement.  Also find the revised Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Rights Agreement.  If you have any questions, I can be reached at the number below. Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal EB 4861 Ext. 37557 
yes. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. FMackin@aol.com 06/29/2000 11:23 AM 
Michelle, Re:  ""This is awful,"" the behavior of the supervisor, the president or the court? <g> Pat 
Dee, I left you a voice mail yesterday, but I wasn't sure if you were in. There is a new deal -- Project E2/Endeavor.  It is in the preliminary stages, but the deal team (led by Don Miller) would like to have data regarding the average cost of Enron employee benefits, broken down by type of benefit, if possible.  I assume that you would have that type of data and could forward it to Don and me. Let me know if I should be contacting someone else. Thanks a lot! Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
Enron North America had some summer clerks this summer.   Generally, we do not hire lawyers without significant legal experience (i.e., more than 6 years) unless they have some extraordinary skills and abilities (e.g., someone with lots of Enron experience). I hope that helps. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Kriste.Sullivan@enron.com 06/29/2000 09:37 AM 
We have had some legal interns  that were on rotations in the Company ,however, I am not sure what program that they were attributed to within Enron.  I believe it was the old diversity program.   I do not know the state of affairs today with respect to legal interns or associates.  You may want to check with Michelle Cash as she may know if ENA has any legal interns or associates. Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal 1400 Smith, EB 4861 Houston, TX  77002 (713) 853-7557 (713) 646-5847 Fax KSulliv@Enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Molly 
06:18 PM Do you have some sort of policy about hiring lawyers?  We have received a resume, but didn't know if anyone in Legal would be interested in seeing it. Thanks, Molly 
Lexi, I don't think the legal department takes candidates without prior legal experience.  Molly, will you check with Kriste or Sharon on their policy so that we know for the future. Lexi, there may be some interest in our Program if he is interested and has had some type of finance experience.  Give me a copy of his resume. Thanks 
Twanda, please prepare a consulting agreement.  Thanks.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle as discussed please prepare a consulting agreement for a contract with Kema consulting.  I have attached one of their sample contracts for your review. Effective July 3rd for 6 months. Company Name - Kema ECC, Inc. Location- Fairfax Virginia 22033-3899 Fee structure that we have agreed to is on a task release basis and is not to exceed $50,000 (all costs). The fee schedule is missing and I will forward it to you as soon as I receive it. Please ensure that non disclosure wording is included in this contract. Description of service KEMA Consulting will assist the Enron ""team"" to create a new ""Fundamental Analysis System"" by performing a concentrated review of the following areas: Systems Architecture Middleware Market Interfaces Data warehousing User Interface This review will result in the creation of a systems requirements document and overall plan.  As part of this service Kema will also provide a guardian role and detailed consulting on a as required basis during the term of this contract. The Enron Signatory will be Kevin Presto  V.P. Enron Power Marketing. Thanks. 
X-Mozilla-Status2: 00000000 Message-ID: <395B7B02.B8EA7216@kemaconsulting.com> 
Pam,  I spoke with Rex through several voice mails early this week.  I have initialed the agreement and sent it to Gene for signature.  I expect that it has been signed already.  Have a great holiday.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Pam Butler@ENRON 06/24/2000 03:14 PM 
Michele, can you please provide me with the status?  I never heard back from Rex.  Did you? 
Twanda, what do we need to do with this information?  How do we get Emma paid?  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle, here are my hours for this week. Monday 26 - 7h 45m Tuesday 27 - 4h 45m Wednesday 28 - 7h 45m Thursday 29 - 8h Friday - 8h Total Hours - 36h 15m Thanks 
David, I did not receive the package in interoffice mail.  Could you email it to me or re-send it by fax at 646-3490?  Thanks!  Michelle Enron Capital Management 
Pat, here is additional information about the transaction we have been working on.  Of course, they are going to finalize tomorrow.  I agree with your concerns about the tortious interference situation.  Do you have any suggestions on mitigating that risk?  My thought would be to request an indemnity for the t.i. claim if it is received.  Alternatively, we can ask for a waiver for all persons who are terminated and ask that  the buyer be a beneficiary/waived party.  Any ideas? Michelle 
Amy, Is Patrick Chris Mallory located in Portland or in California?  If California, then he needs a slightly different agreement because non-competes are not enforceable in California. Let me know.  (I hope he is in Oregon!) Thanks. 
Pat, I am going to forward you a draft of an amendment to the employment agreement for Greg Whalley.  I would appreciate your thoughts on the language, particularly the language in amended section 2.1b regarding the calculation of value for options/restricted stock. For some reason, I cannot attach it to this email, so I will have my assistant send it under separate email cover. Thanks a lot. 
Here's the latest.  Michelle 
Attached are revised drafts of the Purchase Agreement, one of which has been marked to show the changes from the July 8 draft that was distributed to you.  In the interest of time, this draft is being circulated prior to its review by any one at Enron, and it remains subject to our client's comments. Please call me at 713-287-2066 or Ben Clark at 713-287-2004 with your comments at your earliest conveniece. Sincerely George T. Lee This e-mail, including attachments, contains information that is confidential and it may be protected by the  attorney/client or other priviliges.  This e-mail, including attachments, constitutes non-public information intended to be conveyed only to the designated recipient(s).  If you are not an intentded recipient, please delete this e-mail, including attachments, and notify me by return mail, e-mail or at 713-287-2066.  The unauthorized use, dissemination, distribution or reproduction of this e-mail, including attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.  George T. Lee, gtlee@llgm.com. - Purchase.DOC - Purchas1.DOC 
Privileged and Confidential This email contains legal advice and confidentiality should be maintained The attached memo describes a recent decision from the National Labor Relations Board regarding an employee's right to be ""represented"" by a co-worker or other person during a disciplinary meeting.  Employees in unionized settings always have had this right, but it now has been extended by the NLRB's ruling. The ruling was contentious -- there were dissents -- and I expect it to be appealed quickly.  Nonetheless, if an Enron employee wants to have someone sit in on a disciplinary meeting, please call me to discuss how to proceed before responding to that request.  We want to be careful to avoid a finding of an unfair labor practice. Thanks.  Michelle 
- WEINGART.WPD 
Kristina, Attached is the letter we give to all persons who terminate from ENA voluntarily (although I don't really know why we limit it to voluntary terminations -- I have to look into that).  I also will send you by messenger the draft letter to a company (which I don't have on the system) and the letter I sent to the individual we discussed. I hope these help.  Let me know if you would like additional information. Michelle 
t:  please print for me.  thanks.  mhc 
t:  please print for me.  thanks. mhc 
Amy, It looks like my presence in Portland is iffy at this point.  There are other ways to do the training if you still want it asap.  Otherwise, I can schedule it a few weeks from now.  I'll give you the details as I confirm my situation with the Portland trip. Michelle Amy FitzPatrick 07/11/2000 06:31 PM 
Michelle - As of now, does this date still work for you?  I want to get out information to let the employees know about the sessions - I was a bit hesitant to do so before now just in case you did have to cance. I hope that you are well. Kind regards - Amy Michelle Cash 06/30/2000 03:03 PM 
Amy, that day may not work after all.  I'll get back with you if it doesn't. In any event, the training lasts about an hour.  I'll need a video player and a projector for a powerpoint presentation. Thanks.  Michelle Amy FitzPatrick 06/30/2000 04:56 PM 
Michelle - It looks like the 26th of July works best for everyone here.  I hope that this date still works for you. Can you let me know how long the sessions take and what a good number is so that I can get these scheduled? Thanks and have a great weekend. Amy 
Privileged and Confidential Attorney-Client Communication This E-Mail Contains Legal Advice In the Barbed Wire Purchase Agreement is the provision that the Purchaser has 45 days to identify those employees of Company whom it would like the Company to terminate from employment prior to closing.  The Seller is providing a limited indemnity for Purchaser's actions in selecting those employees.  The indemnity expressly excludes claims against ENA for the selection of those employees.  This indemnity thus excludes claims for discrimination on the basis of age, sex, race, religion, etc.  The indemnity exclusion also could be interpreted to exclude claims for tortious interference. Thus, if ENA is going to exercise its right to select Company employees under that provision, ENA will assume the risk of claims by affected employees.  I can assist  you in identifying legal risks in the selection process and determining methods to manage the risks of those claims. Let me know if you would like to discuss this issue. Michelle Cash 
Thanks,  I'll be there.  Michelle Mark Greenberg@ENRON 12/05/2000 11:05 AM 
Michelle - The meeting is scheduled for today at 4:00 in EB38C1.  Rick will be calling in to the meeting. Mark Senior Counsel, ENA Phone:     713-345-8897 Facsimile: 713-646-3940 E-Mail:      Mark.Greenberg@enron.com Michelle Cash@ECT 12/04/2000 09:52 PM 
Mark, If this hasn't already taken place, I'd like to participate.  My assistant, Twanda Sweet, should have my calendar.  Also, FYI, Rick JOhnson will be in town at the end of the week if you want a face-to-face.  MHC Mark Greenberg@ENRON 12/03/2000 01:11 PM 
Dee, Jeff, Rick - I need to set up a meeting between the benefit group and the tax people to walk through the structure we want for the purchase of Project Crane.  We made a good bit of progress in Toronto over Thursday and Friday on the tax structure, but clearly indicated the need to confirm all of this in relation to benefit issues.  I would like to have the meeting on Monday sometime, but need to coordinate schedules.  As soon as possible, please advise me of your respective availabilities so that a meeting can be scheduled, keeping in mind the need to have Rick involved. Thanks. Mark Senior Counsel, ENA Phone:     713-345-8897 Facsimile: 713-646-3940 E-Mail:      Mark.Greenberg@enron.com 
Twanda, could you please print for my review?  Thanks a lot!  MHC 
Hello Michelle Twanda gave me your name - would it be possible for you to have a quick look through the attached consulting agreement that our new acquisition, MG Plc, wish to enter into with Colorado Global Resources, and confirm that it is in order? Many thanks. I have added a Schedule 1 listing the services, and other than filling in the standard gaps I haven't changed anything substantive. Best wishes Michael Enron Europe Legal 
t; please prnt for me thx 
Ann, I am following up on the status of the research involving Section 6.4 of the SPA; specifically, what are the potential liabilities of Enron selecting persons for termination and providing those names to the Seller?  I would like to have this research asap because our time table is very short.  Do you have any information on that?  Thanks.  Michelle Cash ""ANN MURRAY"" <AMURRAY@LLGM.COM> on 07/25/2000 05:40:33 PM 
Mr. del Vecchio and Ms. Cash, We are following up regarding the outstanding benefits issues in the GSP purchase.  It is very important that certain benefits matters be addressed and resolved before the Closing Date. Attached is a copy of our Benefits Required Action list, which was sent to Dolores Lenfest, Mark Greenberg, and Mr. del Vecchio on July 21, 2000.  We spoke with Stuart Zisman today, who suggested we make sure that both of you have receive a recent copy of the list.  (Please let us know if you have any problems opening the WordPerfect document.  The page set-up to print should be 'landscape'.) Among the outstanding issues is the amount of potential withdrawal liability existing in the 2 multiemployer pension plans.   These numbers should be requested from the multiemployer plans as soon as possible.  A concern has been raised as to whether requesting such information from the multiemployer plans will create problems with the union or plan because the union or plan might be given the false impression that GSP anticipates terminating these benefits.  We do not expect any such problems (especially if the plan is told that the sale is anticipated and the buyer wants to make sure of its potential liabilities).  A request for withdrawal liability, although not a daily event, is something that falls within the ordinary administration of a plan.   The plans should either have this amount immediately available, or be able to calculate this amount for you.  If you would like us to assist you with obtaining this information, please let us know. We have included Dolores Lenfest as the responsible person for the majority of the required actions, since she had been our main contact.  If any of these actions have been assigned to another responsible party, please let us know. Thank you. Ann Murray CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail, including attachments, contains information that is confidential and it may be protected by the attorney/client or other privileges.  This e-mail, including attachments, constitutes non-public information intended to be conveyed only to the designated recipient(s).  If you are not an intended recipient, please delete this e-mail, including attachments, and notify me by return mail, e-mail or at (904) 630-5336.  The unauthorized use, dissemination, distribution or reproduction of this e-mail, including attachments, is prohibited and may be unlawful. Ann E. Murray LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae 50 N. Laura St. Suite 2800 Jacksonville, FL 32202 (904) 630-5336 amurray@llgm.com 
I will look closely at the sample letters to see whether there is any way to avoid the conclusion you have reached, which appears to be the correct one. I have a meeting right now, and will focus on it right after that -- I'll send another email once I've completed that review early this afternoon. Michelle Hoyt Thomas@ENRON 07/28/2000 11:23 AM 
Michelle, Melissa Laing and I talked to Jon Chapman today, and basically Jon deferred to you, since the RW employees in NY are a question for US employment law. Melissa and I do believe that the  RW US-based employees that were given UK-style employment letters, such as the sample one I gave you, are our employees, because of those letters; they were given ""offer letters"" by MG before the MG/Enron deal went unconditional and in most cases they accepted them, so they were MG employees when all MG employees became our employees. If it is a fact that they are Enron employees, we have to figure out the liability associated with terminating them! It appears that on Monday, MG and Enron leadership will decide to exit some of the London and New York RW business that MG acquired, and some (minimum 9, max 15) of the former RW employees will need to be terminated during August.   John Sheriff and Gary Hickerson both want to know the cost of that decision.   Right now we are assuming that we are liable for the severance periods stated in the offer letters to the people; we would like to be able to avoid that cost  (estimated at $700k and $1.5M, depending on who is redundant) or reduce it if possible.  However, if it is your recommendation that we have to honor those letters, so be it. If you have any questions, please call Melissa Laing (tie line 8303 6617) in the UK and she can find me.  Thanks. Hoyt Michelle Cash@ECT 07/28/2000 10:10 AM 
Hoyt, I am convinced that the MG employees are ours.  The RW employees may or may not be ours.  It is my understanding that we own the assets of RW, and that we decided to hire certain, key personnel from RW.  The remaining RW employees do not automatically come with the assets.  I am working on obtaining more information on the RW side of things from lawyers here in the US.  Key to employment decisions will be provisions of the asset purchase agreement, if any are applicable.  You might check with Jon Chapman in the UK to see whether he has any more information on this point.  Thanks.  Michelle Hoyt Thomas@ENRON 07/28/2000 04:12 AM 
Justin Boyd said he talked to you, are you convinced that the MG and RW employees are now ours? Assuming that you do: I will bring copies of all the offer letters MG wrote to RW employees, I think there are something like 27 or 28.  They are all very similar to the one or two that I have already given you. I believe that we will not want to keep some of the businesses that are being acquired with Rudolph Wolff, particularly the FX business in New York. Naturally, some of the people in the potentially discontinued business received the onerous letters.  Gary Hickerson has to decide what he is going to do with this by August 18, if not sooner.  With the letters that were delivered , I would like to get an opinion from you on what we have to do to terminate the people associated with the business, assuming that Gary wants to shut it down. Also, MG have 4 to 6 employees in Montreal.  We (HR) are trying to convince the business side that we do not want any people in Montreal because of the employment laws . . . but it does not appear that we will succeed.  We may reduce the size of the office, though, and we may not want to put them on the Canadian payroll, particularly is we only keep 1-2 people there.  Do you have contacts in Montreal that can advise us on how to terminate any employees that we choose to terminate?  What would be the Enron position on having them on a separate payroll from Enron Canada? Thanks Hoyt 
FYI, here is information relating to the voice mail I forwarded to you late Friday.  I will be on vacation the dates they want to handle diligence, so one of you may need to handle it.  Let's see what happens. . .  Michelle 
I have scheduled a meeting for Monday (7/31) at 4:00 at an EB location to be determined to finalize the Project Crane Deal Team, and get everyone up to speed on the latest developments. For those of you I have not spoken with, our counterparty has accelerated the schedule, and as a result we only have a couple of weeks to assemble a team for the data room.  The data room process will begin on Sunday evening, August 13 in Quebec City, Quebec, and end Friday, August 18 in Port Angeles, Washington, with a travel day in between mills on Wednesday.  My assistant, Susie Fallon will handle all the travel arrangements.  We will receive an updated itenerary and index of the data room the middle of next week.  I will distribute the information memorandum at Monday's meeting.  I apologize for the short notice, but look forward to working with you all on this transaction. Thanks, Patrick 
fyi.  michelle 
Today's 4:00pm meeting to discuss Project Crane will be held in Conference Room 5C2.  We will bring copies of the Information Memorandum, Data Room Checklist and Working Group List for anyone that does not have these items. If you have any questions or need additional information, please contact Patrick Wade (x39396) or myself (x58297). Regards Bret Patrick Wade@ECT 07/28/2000 05:27 PM 
I have scheduled a meeting for Monday (7/31) at 4:00 at an EB location to be determined to finalize the Project Crane Deal Team, and get everyone up to speed on the latest developments. For those of you I have not spoken with, our counterparty has accelerated the schedule, and as a result we only have a couple of weeks to assemble a team for the data room.  The data room process will begin on Sunday evening, August 13 in Quebec City, Quebec, and end Friday, August 18 in Port Angeles, Washington, with a travel day in between mills on Wednesday.  My assistant, Susie Fallon will handle all the travel arrangements.  We will receive an updated itenerary and index of the data room the middle of next week.  I will distribute the information memorandum at Monday's meeting.  I apologize for the short notice, but look forward to working with you all on this transaction. Thanks, Patrick 
Many of you that had an interest in E2/Endeavor probably heard yesterday that FPL and Entergy agreed to merge.  This was a complete surprise to us, and unfortunately kills our chances for creating a JV with FPL. We are looking at other options, and I am confident that we will be back with another partner. Thanks for your time and help in this process. Regards, Don 
t:  Please print for me.  Thanks a lot! Michelle 
Attached is my due diligence template for Canada.  Please feel free to use those parts of it you feel appropriate.  Michelle, if I do not hear back I will assume the deal team has decided to have the counsel handle this in my place.  Please be sure to let Patrick Wade know.  If I can be of any other assistance please let me know. 
Molly, add her to the list for Carlos.  Also, could you find out who Bonnie Nelson has worked for in the past and provide me with that information so that we can call and make reference checks?  Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
Scott, I would love to attend, except that I will be out of the office on vacation that whole week.  It sounds like a great presentation! Would you mind if I forward it to some other folks in corporate legal who might be interested (i.e., my counterparts)? Thanks.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
Non-Executive 
TWanda, I assume that you have these saved somewhere?  If not, would you? Thanks.  Michelle 
Debi, I will prepare a draft response for you.  Michelle Debi Vanwey 08/07/2000 01:24 PM 
Michelle, should I respond? 
Debbi, First off, I am wondering how you knew the company name I was calling on.  I never gave that other girl the name of the company. Any how, I am wanting information on Contracting Solutions, Inc.  They listed your company as a reference, and I have been trying to chase this down for about two months now.  I have been able to contact the other two references they had given, but the one with your company has been a bear to run down. They stated that they have worked with your company on a permanent placement.  Is this correct? How was their performance? (did they respond timely with qualified candidates? With legitimate resumes of real people or were the people no longer available when you wanted to interview them?, etc.) Can you tell me if there have been any problems with this company? (if yes, what are they.) Are you currently doing business with them?  (If yes, please proceed to the next question, if no, Please tell me why?) Do you have any additional information that would assist me in doing business with this company? Is there any way you can respond as soon as possible, I would like to either approve them or close this file. Priscilla Rex Trucking 
Amy, we do put people under contract with a definite term; however, at the end of that term, the employee converts to an employee at will.  We also hire consultants for a fixed term, but a year-long period for an individual is pretty long for a consultng position.  What is the situation?  Maybe we can find an alternative. Michelle Amy FitzPatrick 08/09/2000 06:12 PM 
Michelle - Do we ever do fixed term offers?  I got a question today from RD Hawkins as LasVegas Cogen asking if we could hire someone for a one year period of time.  I know we can do it in the UK, just not sure about the US. Thanks! Amy 
I agree with your approach.  MHC PS, I am out next week on vacation.  Call Twanda to arrange for assistance while I am out, and she will refer you on.  Agreements will be done during my absence; again, work with Twanda.  Thanks. Michelle Amy FitzPatrick 08/10/2000 09:44 AM 
Basically, RD wants to hire someone and have that person make a one-year commitment to the Company (this is someone that worked for them before and left after a few months due to personal reasons).  Rather than doing any kind of agreement, I have recommended to RD that we either do a signing payment (full amount repaid if leaves within the year) or a retention payment as part of the offer letter. Are you comfortable with that? Thanks! Amy Michelle Cash 08/10/2000 03:51 AM 
Amy, we do put people under contract with a definite term; however, at the end of that term, the employee converts to an employee at will.  We also hire consultants for a fixed term, but a year-long period for an individual is pretty long for a consultng position.  What is the situation?  Maybe we can find an alternative. Michelle Amy FitzPatrick 08/09/2000 06:12 PM 
Michelle - Do we ever do fixed term offers?  I got a question today from RD Hawkins as LasVegas Cogen asking if we could hire someone for a one year period of time.  I know we can do it in the UK, just not sure about the US. Thanks! Amy 
Here is the note that went out.  I'm giving a speech this morning and will be out all afternoon, but I will try to catch you in between.  Also, I am in tomorrow, but then am out all next week on vacation.  While I am out, you can work with Emma Caplan.   Thanks.  Michelle 
Seems we are close but a few things are different than my spreadsheet we discussed. Here are my comments: 1 - I think this needs to be a UK form contract rather than US. Otherwise I think it is difficult for me to mainatin all the UK benefits (Pension, share plan etc.,). All numbers bar base can stay in US$'s. The Base will need to be translated at 1.5 into UKpds (ie pds150,000 then the car allce subtracted pds10,800 and shown as such) and state in the contract how much should be paid on US payroll and how much in UK (my current arrangements allows me to keep about pds600 per month paid in the UK so I can pay UK bills). I am happy to prepare a draft of this is you wish for Michelle and John Chapman to review. 2 - I'd like confirmation that new base is effective June 1, 2000. This is when we started these discussions. 3 - The cash retention amounts of pds45,000 are missing. We agreed this would be paid 3/01 and 3/02. 4 - There are 3 stock option grants on appendix A of $100k each, but I believe we agreed $120k on signing and $120k 6/01. Additionally given you were uncomfortable with additional base bump in Jan 01 I suggested we add that $25k to the second option grant making it $120k in options on signing and $145k in 6/01. Incidentally, can we make these clearly 5 year options with standard vesting (1/3, 1/3, 1/3). 5 - On Bonus targets, can we insert top 25% as a VP, top 50% otherwise, after each target. 6 - On ENE LTI awards, I believe we agreed this years award of $300 would be guaranteed. For 01 I would like again wording saying ""as a VP"" inserted after 25% target and top 50% otherwise. 7 - Not sure if we need to but obviously the Relo memo might need to be referenced with regards to this not being the sole agreement etc., Thanks David 
Debi, Your plan sounds good to me.  You all have done a good job of researching this data, and I believe we are in a strong position. My one question is whether it is worth it to tell them we are not accepting resumes from them.  What is the harm in accepting them?  Are we obligated to interview the candidate?  Given this situation, it is possible that telling them not to send resumes will fan the flames for no good reason, especially since their ""proven track record"" is only for one placement.  It does not appear as if they are flooding us with resumes.  Let me know if my assumption is not correct. Also, I am not sure your apology is necessary.  It certainly is well-intentioned, but I wouldn't want it to be construed as some sort of admission of wrongdoing.  So, unless you feel compelled, . . . . Thanks. Michelle Debi Vanwey 08/10/2000 02:03 PM 
Our research is complete with John Nguyen and Mark Delaro.    There is only one John Nguyen that works for Enron, and he is at EBS.   This is not the same John Nguyen that was sent from Contracting Solutions.  I talked with the Enron John personally and compared past employment to the CS John.    The John Nguyen that was sent by CS was sent on 5/4 to Keith Dziadek for an opening he had.   We got no response from Keith, which for him is considered a no.    We have no record of Mark Delaro ever being sent in by CS.    He was directly recruited by Ergos, presented by them, and hired through them. Jennifer talked with Mark  and he states that he has never talked to a recruiting firm named Contracting Solutions.   If CS did indeed present his resume to Enron, then they should be able to produce the email with date/time stamp.    Neither Jen nor I have asked them for this yet.   I feel Robert and I should meet with them tomorrow to bring closure to the situation.   Robert had mentioned that we should be able to get back with them this week, and I think we should make good on the promise. Here are my recommendations - please give me your thoughts. 1)  I owe the Account Manager an apology for being rude on the phone. 2)  Clarify with them that we do not owe them a fee on Mark Delaro or John Nguyen, based on above facts. 3)  Clarify with them that we are not doing business with them at this time. The recruiters have just given me their final preferred vendor list, and CS is not on it since no one is interested in working with them.   We should let them know that yes, they do have an MSA which is an agreement for contract placement, but this does not require us to accept resumes from them.    We accept resumes only from those agencies that we ask to assist us with recruiting.    We should offer to take another look at them in 90 days, give them a second chance, and have the guidelines for the trial period well defined.  They should contact me directly at that time. 4)  We should address the relationship between Jennifer and Kathryn, the difficulties being that Jennifer made a decision not to work with them, Kathryn tried to force her business on Jennifer after the decision had been made, and Kathyrn brought her personal problems into the conversation in order to press the point.   They should be aware of the basis of Jennifer's decision not to employ them as a vendor:   1)  inadequate resume flow  2) poor working relationship with account manager. 5)  We have no proof that Jennifer has spread bad press about CS to any other company including Continential, Shell Services, and Dynegy, and after addressing this issue with her do not believe that this occurred.   Nor did she did send Mark Delaro's resume to Ergos.  We have no reason to believe that she has ever acted out of integrity while working for Enron, nor that she will in the future. 6) Cheryl Charles (Maddison) presented her resume to Robert and Ryan, and Ryan forwarded to me in the past 2 weeks, and has not claimed association with CS.   We have no recruiter openings at this time, and she has been informed of this by Ryan and myself. Debi 
Thanks for handling that!  We are looking forward to our trip.  I'll call you when we get in and let you know our details.  I look forward to seeing you, Mary Lou, and Peter, if available.  See you soon!  Michelle ""Bensfield, James"" <jbensfield@milchev.com> on 08/10/2000 04:11:22 PM 
Michelle: The tickets went out FedEx today.  If they don't show up at the appropriate time tomorrow, give me a call and we'll track them down. 
Privileged and Confidential This email contains legal advice Hoyt and Melissa, I am assuming that we are discussing contract personnel who provide some sort of services for MG/RW.  It looks like there may be some key personnel we want to employ, but that there are many whom we don't want to hire.   I am not really familiar with the specific facts here. The question of a joint employer arises when a company treats its contract personnel like its own -- by setting compensation, controlling their activities, engaging in promotion/discipline/termination, etc. decisions, and other ways in which an employer treats its own employees.  So, if the plan is to have workers doing the same thing, with one as a contractor, and one as an employee, there could be some issues, particularly if they share a supervisor.  Unfortunately, that often is the case with contract personnel. If there are distinctions among the various responsibilities of these workers -- and like workers are treated similarly -- the risk may be reduced.    It is cleanest, however, to use all of these workers through the contracting agency for a while (assume we don't want to hire them all, which is the other alternative).  Then, the company may want to make selected offers to people who may be in a managerial role or have some other distinction from the bulk of the contract workers. I would like additional information on this situation before reaching a definitive conclusion.  So, let's try to discuss it.  I am booked until about 11 this morning, but am available after that. Michelle Hoyt Thomas@ENRON 08/08/2000 04:21 PM 
Bath LA Michelle, I guess emails will get to you sooner if I remember to add you to the addressee list!  Sorry. Hoyt 
Bath LA Melissa, my concern is that we may get hit with what is called a ""co-employment suit"" in the US.  This is where an agency employee claims that he/she was treated like an employee, therefore he/she should get employee benefits (vs. benefits from the agency company, which are probably weak). Since we did a share purchase of MG, if the agency employees filed a suit against MG claiming that they are really employees, I think that we would have to defend it. I am not an attorney, but I am going to send this to Michelle Cash, who can advise us on the position we should take.  I would think that if we single out certain employees to become Enron employees and the remainder stay as agency employees, this would enhance the legal position of the agency employees (versus everyone staying as an agency employee).  Michelle, can you help us with this one?  Thanks. Melissa, I also think we should minimize distribution on this discussion . . . Enron Europe 
Twanda, please take the text of this email and turn it into a document that is presentable so that I can give it to Mark at our Quarterly Business Review Meeting at 2:00 Monday -- actually, I will need it by noon so that I can revise it.  Thanks.  Michelle Transactions Major Events of September - November 2000 Garden State Paper -- closing and transition. Triple Lutz -- issues surrounding potential divestiture, including internal discussions, review of data requests and responses, review and comment on both PSA documents, negotiations with both buyer's representatives, and discussions with clients.  Issues include salaries of employees hired by buyer (effect of Enron severance plan), other benefits for divested employees (including unvested stock options, insurance, vacation, etc.), process for divesture, payment of severance obligations, possible redeployment, etc. Crane -- monitor due diligence, PSA review and comment, client discussions. Falcon -- review diligence reports, client discussions. E2  -- limited involvement in PSA and schedule review, data requests. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 Triple Lutz -- continued negotiations and document drafting.  Transition issues for divestiture will continue to be significant.  Litigation by persons who lose their jobs as a result of the transaction and who choose not to sign the waiver for double the severance benefits is possible. East Coast Power:  If we sell our interest in ECP, there will be many transition issues due to Enron's providing benefits, payroll, etc. for ECP personnel.  Also, there will be transition issues for other services, including legal services that Enron has been providing for ECP. Crane/Falcon -- could move forward; Crane is more likely.  Issues of labor unions and Canadian law will require attention on transition issues. Litigation Major Events of September - November 2000 No employee-initiated litigation for 2000. Non-compete litigation:  Currently, suit pending against Alonzo Williams in Sharolyn Wood's court.  Suit filed, no TRO sought.  Service in process. Minor litigation:  Marentz & Co. v. Enron.  Suit for non-payment of placement fee.  Maximum damages $75K.  Discovery period ends this week, court-ordered mediation to follow. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 I expect that we will be filing non-compete litigation in February and March, as people leave after they are paid their bonuses. We should discuss the continued use of Bill Ogden for non-compete litigation. Documents Generated Major Events of September - November 2000 New Consulting Services Agreement:  I prepared a new form of Consulting Services Agreement to replace old Master Service Agreement and Project Work Description for Net Works contract personnel. I received minor comments from outside counsel as well as client group feedback.  I will finalize the agreement, so that the new document can go into effect on 1/1/01. Standard Agreements: I prepared: ___ draft employment agreements. ___ draft consulting services agreements. ___ separation agreement and releases. ___ retention letter agreements. The number of employment agreements seems low to me, particularly in trading.  My understanding is that Lavorato does not want to put every person in trading under contract, but wants to wait and see how they perform.  There are potential legal risks with this approach if we want to enforce our non-compete provisions. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 I expect that, after bonus amounts are announced, there will be a flurry of contract activity in efforts to pay people through means other than the bonus pool. Investigations Major Events of September - November 2000 Anonymous Letters Sent to Office of Chairman about Energy Operations:  I directed the investigation and supervised outside consultants once the company decided to employ them.  I and the team reviewed the results with Sally Beck in early November and proposed methods to address the results of the consultants' surveys.  Sally Beck is contemplating communication to employees on results of survey.  [Other proposals can be discussed verbally.] Texaco Hacker:  We had a situation where one of our employees logged onto the Texaco computer system using an ID of a former co-worker.  He then sent inappropriate emails to her co-workers, posing as her.  The investigation results led to termination of employment for cause. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 I expect that there will be some claims that will need to be investigated following PRC/bonus discussions. Training Major Events of September - November 2000 Increased role as trainer.  I provided interview training for all Net Works employees who are involved in the Technology Track (about 10 sessions). Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 EIM:  Ray Bowen has asked Julia and I to provide training to the Industrials Group.  The focus will be on labor and employment issues in the acquisition of assets as well as the integration of assets into the Enron family. All of Wholesale:  The harassment prevention training is going to be repeated early next year for all persons hired in the last 18 months.  Refresher training is being developed and will be delivered for those who already went through the first round. Pre-Hire Testing Major Events of September - November 2000 Many Wholesale groups are looking at pre-employment testing as a method of screening out applicants.  I am working with the Training and Development groups to ensure that the tests meet legal standards.  I have suggested experts for HR to use in validation of such tests to ensure that the tests will result in a successful employee. Re-Skilling:  One aptitude test is being employed in the selection of potential employees who may be re-skilled to perform IT jobs working under Beth Perlman. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 I expect the testing issue to continue to be hot, particularly since John Lavorato likes the concept for use in the Trading Track rotations for the A&A program. Employee Relations/Terminations Much of my time is spent providing advice on employee relations/termination issues -- approximately 10-15 per week (total).  No two situations are alike, and they require significant time. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 After PRC/bonus time, this area of practice will be exceptionally busy.  The company will put persons who received a Needs Improvement or lower rating on a performance improvement plan.  Generally, I review those before they are put in place.  If they are not successful, then terminations are likely (probably early in the first half of 2001).  Those issues are time-consuming and full of risks. Work for Portfolio Assets Major Events of September - November 2000 Ecogas:  wind-down issues. Mariner:  Change of Control Agreements. CGAS:  harassment prevention training -- arranged for Littler, Mendelson to provide training for CGAS personnel. East Coast Power:  Agreements, advice and counselling on various issues. Anticipated Issues for December 2000 - February 2001 CGAS:  Revising employment agreements for key personnel. Mariner:  Employment agreement negotiation. Conclusions ENA:  ENA has not been able to hire commercial talent at the levels of manager and above.  I expect to see a great emphasis on hiring.  Lavorato has placed processes in place for hiring at that level, including the requirement of an interview with the OOC before someone can be hired at the level of manager or above. Salaries need to be reviewed for equity (by gender as well as by race). Net Works:  Net Works has hired over 800 employees and contractors in 2000. I expect that a portion of those will be bad hires and will have to be managed out.  Generally, the IT personnel are not the best about counselling and documentation, so there may be significant work to be done to  ensure that risks are managed in that situation.  I have seen improvement in that group working with HR, and they have invited me to conduct training, so it may improve over time. Contractors are another issue at Net Works.  A significant portion of the work force is contract personnel.  Microsoft issues could arise if contractors are allowed to stay on too long. Misclassification under the FLSA is another issue.  Net Works has too many 
no, hold all of them until I speak with him -- we've obviously got a lot of interest!  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
Bret, I received the schedule and itinerary for diligence on Project Crane and have forwarded it to Rick Johnson, Fran Mayes, Pat Mackin, and Dee Lenfest. We have preliminarily decided that Rick Johnson will go to both sites to cover Labor (union) issues and support in the general HR diligence that Fran Mayes of ENA HR will conduct.  Either Pat or Dee will travel to Washington to address benefits issues, including obtaining information for subsequent modeling of benefit costs.  We would like to have our outside counsel in Canada conduct the benefits diligence in the Quebec City location and to support Rick to the extent that there may be any special issues of Canadian or Quebec law.   I will continue to coordinate these activities and provide whatever other assistance may be needed. Let me know if you need any other information about this diligence plan for employment/labor matters.  I will work with Peter Del Vecchio to identify our outside counsel designee. Michelle Bret Scholtes@ENRON 08/03/2000 01:28 PM 
The Project Crane Due Diligence process has been rescheduled for  August 27 to September 1.  We begin the process on Sunday, August 27, in Quebec City where we will attend a dinner and work in the data room Monday and Tuesday. Wednesday will be a travel day, and we will spend Thursday and Friday at the Port Angeles data room.  The Beacon Group is finalizing our itinerary and updating the data room index, so we will send this information to you as it becomes available. Please continue to work on your due diligence lists, and we will call you early next week to finalize responsibilities. Thanks Patrick and Bret 
would you please print this and attachments and put a sticky note on them that it is for Anonymous Letters project -- so that I focus on it!  thanks. mhc 
*************************CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATION************************* Prepared at the Direction of Counsel in Anticipation of Litigation Michelle Hoogendam Cash Assistant General Counsel Legal Department Enron Corporation 1400 Smith Street, EB3823 Houston, Texas 77002-7361 Dear Michelle: Attached please find a list of employees we plan to interview.  Of course, the list is not exhaustive, and does not reflect a proposed order of interviews.  Please notify us once Sally Beck sends the survey letter to her employees.  We will then begin setting up interviews. Sincerely ____________________________ Cheryl A. Brown Director of Operations S.J. Bashen Corporation 1616 S. Voss, Suite 1000 Houston, Texas 77057 ph: 713.780.8056 ext. 104 fax: 713.780.8206 cbrown@sjbc.com **************************************************************************** *********************************************** This message and the documents attached to it, if any, are intended only for the use of the addressee and may contain information that is PRIVILEGED and CONFIDENTIAL, and/or may contain information that was prepared IN ANTICIPATION OF LITIGATION and/or AT THE DIRECTION OF COUNSEL.  If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination of this communication is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this communication in error, please delete all electronic copies of this message and its attachments, destroy any hard copies you may have created and notify Cheryl A. Brown immediately at 713/780-8056 or cbrown@sjbc.com. - enronwitness.lst.wpd 
Debi, I will defer to your expertise on whether we should actively accept resumes from CS at this time.  I think the way to couch it is that we do not want to receive them at this time, but that they are free to check with us in a couple of months to see whether that has changed.  That way, we aren't making it an absolute ban. Thanks for the information. Michelle Debi Vanwey 08/11/2000 09:27 AM 
Thanks for your feedback.   If we accept resumes from an agency it means establishing a full working relationship with them which is time consuming for the recruiter.  We have to constantly QA them and answer their phone calls, and it is more work than it seems from the outside.   They almost need to be coached all the time unless they are really good, which is rare.    CS is one of the fairly high maintenance agencies.   This is why we are going to a preferred vendor list.    We have lots of agencies that want to work with us, and choosing those that we can count on to get us good candidates quickly, and take the least amount of our time saves a lot of time for the recruiters.   After Jennifer told Kathyrn she wasn't going to work with her, Kathyrn did flood her inbox with unsolicited resumes.   That would certainly make me not want to work with them.   I can force the issue and ask one of the recruiters to work with them if you feel we need to, however I feel that until Kathryn cools off a little, this would not be productive.    As for the apology, I will always apologize if I am clearly in the wrong, however, I think that definitely in this case it would be construed as an admission of wrongdoing on Enron's part.   I'm fine with letting go of it.   This has been a good learning experience for me.    There have been a couple of phone calls this week where I was consciously more polite with agency/sales phone calls than I would have been prior to last week.    Jennifer had some fear up yesterday about addressing an issue with an agency because of the CS issue, which is understandable, and we're working through it together.  I want her to be able to stay in her power with these people, and we just need to learn new ways to do that.   It's a tough job dealing with agencies day after day - really wears you down.    We're going to write some scripts for talking with them in the future, and the recruiters will route all the new ones through me so they all get the same story.    We're also putting some new processes in place so that we are consistent in our relationships with agencies. Hopefully this will help eliminate some of these issues in the future. Thanks for all your help...... Debi Michelle Cash 08/10/2000 11:13 PM 
Debi, Your plan sounds good to me.  You all have done a good job of researching this data, and I believe we are in a strong position. My one question is whether it is worth it to tell them we are not accepting resumes from them.  What is the harm in accepting them?  Are we obligated to interview the candidate?  Given this situation, it is possible that telling them not to send resumes will fan the flames for no good reason, especially since their ""proven track record"" is only for one placement.  It does not appear as if they are flooding us with resumes.  Let me know if my assumption is not correct. Also, I am not sure your apology is necessary.  It certainly is well-intentioned, but I wouldn't want it to be construed as some sort of admission of wrongdoing.  So, unless you feel compelled, . . . . Thanks. Michelle Debi Vanwey 08/10/2000 02:03 PM 
Our research is complete with John Nguyen and Mark Delaro.    There is only one John Nguyen that works for Enron, and he is at EBS.   This is not the same John Nguyen that was sent from Contracting Solutions.  I talked with the Enron John personally and compared past employment to the CS John.    The John Nguyen that was sent by CS was sent on 5/4 to Keith Dziadek for an opening he had.   We got no response from Keith, which for him is considered a no.    We have no record of Mark Delaro ever being sent in by CS.    He was directly recruited by Ergos, presented by them, and hired through them. Jennifer talked with Mark  and he states that he has never talked to a recruiting firm named Contracting Solutions.   If CS did indeed present his resume to Enron, then they should be able to produce the email with date/time stamp.    Neither Jen nor I have asked them for this yet.   I feel Robert and I should meet with them tomorrow to bring closure to the situation.   Robert had mentioned that we should be able to get back with them this week, and I think we should make good on the promise. Here are my recommendations - please give me your thoughts. 1)  I owe the Account Manager an apology for being rude on the phone. 2)  Clarify with them that we do not owe them a fee on Mark Delaro or John Nguyen, based on above facts. 3)  Clarify with them that we are not doing business with them at this time. The recruiters have just given me their final preferred vendor list, and CS is not on it since no one is interested in working with them.   We should let them know that yes, they do have an MSA which is an agreement for contract placement, but this does not require us to accept resumes from them.    We accept resumes only from those agencies that we ask to assist us with recruiting.    We should offer to take another look at them in 90 days, give them a second chance, and have the guidelines for the trial period well defined.  They should contact me directly at that time. 4)  We should address the relationship between Jennifer and Kathryn, the difficulties being that Jennifer made a decision not to work with them, Kathryn tried to force her business on Jennifer after the decision had been made, and Kathyrn brought her personal problems into the conversation in order to press the point.   They should be aware of the basis of Jennifer's decision not to employ them as a vendor:   1)  inadequate resume flow  2) poor working relationship with account manager. 5)  We have no proof that Jennifer has spread bad press about CS to any other company including Continential, Shell Services, and Dynegy, and after addressing this issue with her do not believe that this occurred.   Nor did she did send Mark Delaro's resume to Ergos.  We have no reason to believe that she has ever acted out of integrity while working for Enron, nor that she will in the future. 6) Cheryl Charles (Maddison) presented her resume to Robert and Ryan, and Ryan forwarded to me in the past 2 weeks, and has not claimed association with CS.   We have no recruiter openings at this time, and she has been informed of this by Ryan and myself. Debi 
I certainly agree with the concept.  It sounds like it gives us more flexibility. Mary Joyce@ENRON 08/07/2000 08:30 AM 
I think this sounds like a great suggestion.  Pam and Michelle, comments? Thanks! Mary Drew C Lynch@ECT 08/07/2000 06:19 AM Sent by: Drew C Lynch@ECT 
Mary, Hope things are going well with you and yours! Nigel and I were discussing some contract language today and wanted some input from you on how we might word future grants of options or stock. Should we be wording Director Level and below agreements with a more generic ""equity"" component instead of specifying options or restricted stock? My question revolves around our tendency from time to time to change the structure of how we deliver value as a company. Your thoughts? What are others doing? DCL 
Debi, Your response should go as follows.  I suggest doing it in writing, rather than an email that could be manipulated.  If you have theri fax number, that probably would be best.  Also, I suggest that we ask CS not to identify us as a reference or to use our name in any type of advertising or publicity materials.  We prefer to keep our vendor list private. Dear Ms. Poss, Thank you for your written  request for a reference on Contracting Solutions.  It is not our practice to provide references for contracting agencies.  I would suggest that you contact another company that does business with Contracting Solutions to obtain the information you seek.  I am sure that Contracting Solutions can provide you with alternatives. By the way, I spoke with Jennifer Cronin, who had referred your call to me. She indicated that you had identified Contracting Solutions as the subject matter of your request. Sincerely yours, Debi Vanwey Debi Vanwey 08/07/2000 01:24 PM 
Michelle, should I respond? 
Debbi, First off, I am wondering how you knew the company name I was calling on.  I never gave that other girl the name of the company. Any how, I am wanting information on Contracting Solutions, Inc.  They listed your company as a reference, and I have been trying to chase this down for about two months now.  I have been able to contact the other two references they had given, but the one with your company has been a bear to run down. They stated that they have worked with your company on a permanent placement.  Is this correct? How was their performance? (did they respond timely with qualified candidates? With legitimate resumes of real people or were the people no longer available when you wanted to interview them?, etc.) Can you tell me if there have been any problems with this company? (if yes, what are they.) Are you currently doing business with them?  (If yes, please proceed to the next question, if no, Please tell me why?) Do you have any additional information that would assist me in doing business with this company? Is there any way you can respond as soon as possible, I would like to either approve them or close this file. Priscilla Rex Trucking 
Hoyt, I have reviewed the attached.  I think it looks good.  It strikes the balance of welcoming and also letting them know that changes will occur in the future.  Kriste, any other thoughts? Michelle Hoyt Thomas@ENRON 08/15/2000 06:02 PM 
I tried to make this as innocuous as I could, it will not make the New York folks happy but I don't think we should go beyond this right now.  I have to print these Wed AM so please give me some feedback ASAP! 
I have not prepared one and am not aware of one in place -- that is why I prefaced my comments with that.  Randy's email made it sound like there was one. Sorry I'm not more help on this.  Michelle Dan Lyons 08/18/2000 09:42 AM 
Do we have a CA with these people? Michelle Cash 08/17/2000 11:15 PM 
As far as I am concerned, if we have a CA in place , we are ok in disclosing the data regarding employees you describe.  Good luck!  MHC Randal Maffett 08/17/2000 01:55 PM 
Per my v-mail: I'm actively engaging prospective buyers for Ecogas (ENA's stock).  A couple of questions: Under the ""Come-Along"" provision [Sec. 8(d)(ii)] of the Stockholder's and Voting Agreement am I correct assuming that if ENA finds a willing buyer and acceptable price that we can effectively require/force all other shareholders to sell under the same terms, etc...? If the terms of such a sale included non-cash items (stock, stock options, gas contracts, power contracts, tolling agreements, etc....) is it also correct to assume that those items would be valued (for the non-ENA shareholders) at ""Fair Market Value"" pursuant to Sec. 7? In some cases the discussions are elevating quickly to very senior levels and there are certain questions that are being asked and/or going to be asked relative to the Securities Purchase Agreement, Business Opportunities Agreement, JB Employment Agreement and Stockholder's and Voting Agreement. Assuming the prospective buyer is under a Conf Agrmt, are there any restrictions to my discussing or disclosing material facts relative to these agreements and/or providing them a copy? I appreciate your feedback ASAP. RTM 
I'd suggest finding otu more information.  My inclination would be not to accept the contractor. Candace Womack 08/21/2000 04:39 PM 
Michelle - Welcome back from vacation! Gary Buck suggested that I approach you for guidance regarding a background investigation report we have received on a contractor candidate for Networks.  The report indicates that 8/14/95, the candidate was found guilty of theft, a misdemeanor.  He was sentenced to 3 days jail and fined $200. The candidate indicated on his Contractor Information Sheet that he had a misdemeanor from 1995. Should we have the recruiter contact the candidate and ask for more information about the misdemeanor, or should we simply reject him? Thanks for your assistance. Candace 
As you know, we have another power plant project -- if I haven't forwarded information to you yet, I will be doing so in the next day or so. The schedule is for preliminary diligence to be completed by 9/8; data room is open 9/6.  Attached to the email I will be sending you is a list of the current information we have here -- lots of documents are here.  Please review the data list and forward to me which ones you want copied, and I will coordinate that process. The stock purchase agreement draft will be circulated next week. Michelle 
Sure.  Dick is an outside consultant.  His name is Dick Jeanerette.  His number is 713-650-6535.  Thanks, and have fun in MA.  Michelle Gina Corteselli@ENRON 08/24/2000 11:24 AM 
Michelle, As regards yesterday's meeting on PRC descriptors, I understood that we were going to move from the ""Strong"" through ""Needs Improvement""  categories  to numbers 1-5 (or 1-6 if we decide not to combine the last two categories), and that we were going to assign relative descriptors to the new number categories.  My task is to come up with some good verbiage for the descriptors. I'd like to chat with Dick, if this is possible, for his additional input as I go along with this.  Does he have a phone number in Enron or an email address at which I may reach him. I am leaving for a mini-vacation to Cape Cod tonight --will be back on Monday.  But intend to work on this over the weekend so that I have something in hand early next week for us to discuss.  Does this work for you? Many thanks in advance, Gina 
Alice, for the employee we discussed last week, here is information on payee.  It doesn't look good.  Michelle 
Michelle, I talked with Accounts Payable and we are sending payments to the UK. The address is 5355 HighStreet, Egham, Great Britain. Thanks! Mandy 
FYI, it sounds like they now are organized about the process in New York. Michelle 
Hi!  i have refined the plan a bit, please give me comments. - August25Plan.doc 
FYI.  Michelle 
I have discussed with Melissa and it does not seem to impact them; in fact, I think it messes them up in London from a legal standpoint if they offer redeployment.  I also think that we are going to reduce the redeployment possibilities for the NYC staff and the time given to them to find an Enron job (which led to my phone call this afternoon re putting term letters together for them next week).    But I will let Melissa address the question! Hoyt Michelle.Cash@enron.com wrote: > Hoyt, do you think there are any issues because we are considering > redeployment in the US but not in the UK?  MHC > > ""Hoyt H. Thomas"" <hhth@earthlink.net> on 08/24/2000 10:10:42 AM > 
> > Hi!  i have refined the plan a bit, please give me comments. > > (See attached file: August25Plan.doc) > >   ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >                        Name: August25Plan.doc >    August25Plan.doc    Type: WINWORD File (application/msword) >                    Encoding: base64 -- Hoyt H. Thomas 713.668.3122 
David, Hello, I hope all is well with you.  I was out last week on holiday and am just now getting back into the swing of things. Alan and I have spoken about your contract, and I am getting in touch with the CU lawyers to work on an appropriate form for Australia.  I will be keep you apprised of the status. Have a good weekend. 
Privileged and Confidential Felicia, Would you please run a disparate impact analysis for the proposed stock options to be granted within Enron Net Works?  I would like this data for the purpose of giving legal advice. Thank you. 
I agree.  Thanks for letting them know about my contact.  I emailed them the form, so we should be on our way!  Michelle David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/27/2000 05:42 PM 
Thanks for the update - I've spoken to CU and they are expecting to hear from you. Apart from a personal interest I would like to get an Australian version of the Enron employment contract as a precedent. Michelle Cash@ECT 26-08-2000 04:18 
David, Hello, I hope all is well with you.  I was out last week on holiday and am just now getting back into the swing of things. Alan and I have spoken about your contract, and I am getting in touch with the CU lawyers to work on an appropriate form for Australia.  I will be keep you apprised of the status. Have a good weekend. Michelle 
Hoyt, Under the Older Workers Benefits Protection Act, we must provide demographic information to persons over the age of 40 who are offered severance packages in exchange for a release.  We need the title/position and the age of the persons holding those positions for the persons who were offered a package as well as the persons who were not offered a package.  We will provide this data to persons over 40 to validate their releases. Thanks. 
Brian, Pat Mackin requested that I forward this on to you.   I think he has a good idea here to look at a process for RIF selection.  Currently, it is done on an ad-hoc basis, with plans being prepared for each situation. Pat, do you still have a copy of the one you prepared a while back?  It would be an excellent start. Thanks. Michelle 
Document attached - RIF Willrich m1.doc 
Sheryl, sorry, I had the wrong email address.  Here is the resend.  Michelle 
The message that you sent was undeliverable to the following: cgussett@bracepatt.com (user not found) Possibly truncated original message follows: Received: from mcafee.bracepatt.com by bracepatt.com; Tue, 29 Aug 2000 16:02:16 -0500 Received: FROM postmaster.enron.com BY mcafee.bracepatt.com ; Tue Aug 29 16:04:30 2000 -0500 X-Proxy: keymaster.bracepatt.com protected Received: from mailman.enron.com (mailman.enron.com [192.168.189.66]) by postmaster.enron.com (8.8.8/8.8.8/postmaster-1.00) with ESMTP id QAA28081; Tue, 29 Aug 2000 16:00:17 -0500 (CDT) Received: from dserv1.ect.enron.com (dserv1.ect.enron.com [172.16.1.37]) by mailman.enron.com (8.10.1/8.10.1/corp-1.05) with ESMTP id e7TL0GH00119; Tue, 29 Aug 2000 16:00:17 -0500 (CDT) Received: from notes.ect.enron.com (ecthou_gt2.corp.enron.com [172.16.4.33]) by dserv1.ect.enron.com (8.8.8/8.8.8) with SMTP id QAA11640; Tue, 29 Aug 2000 16:00:09 -0500 (CDT) Received: by notes.ect.enron.com(Lotus SMTP MTA v4.6.5  (863.2 5-20-1999)) id 8625694A.00735BE5 ; Tue, 29 Aug 2000 16:00:01 -0500 X-Lotus-FromDomain: ECT 
I'll interview.  I'm available between 10-12 on Thursday.  Let me know when and where.  Michelle Geynille Dillingham 12/05/2000 12:54 PM 
Due to some scheduling conflicts some of the candidates are coming in at various times.  As it stands the following is their arrival dates and times: Candidate  Date  Time Christina Benkert Dec. 8  after 6:00 PM Nelly Haghighat Dec. 8  after 6:00 PM Rupa Bhargava  Dec. 8  9:05 PM Belinda DeLa Cruz Dec. 8  11:05 AM Ayesha Kanji  Dec. 8  11:05 AM Sona Khanova  Dec. 8   1:48 PM Amanda Lang  Dec. 8  11:05 AM Dale You  Dec. 8   11:05 AM Sabrina DeMelo Dec. 7  after 6:00 PM One of the candidates Sabrina DeMelo is unavailable for the weekend interviews and in order to accomodate her she has been given the option of getting her four interviews in on the off cycle Super Thursday.  However, they are looking for interviewers for that Thursday so I will need two volunteers from the Wellesley team for the following date: Thursday, December 7th from 9:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Please contact Cathy Lira, at ext. 5-4049 to inform her of your availability. If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me. Thanks, Geynille 
I hadn't heard about Alex's offer. That is great!!  He is such a nice guy. I'll send details on hen night later.  Michelle ""Stith, Kimberly Gee"" <KGStith@littler.com> on 08/31/2000 07:02:28 PM 
please print this and attachment for me.  thanks.  mhc 
Here are the latest!!!  Michelle 
fyi re:  Lutz.  mhc 
Michelle, looks good.  I don't know the details of this one, but if you get the Buyer to agree it is very generous for the employee.  Regarding Pension Plan, if you get Dee the list of employees, we can get an idea of the unvested amounts by employee.  Since this appears to be an asset sale, Enron can either pay this outside of the plan or consider it forfeited. Thanks Cb Michelle Cash@ECT 09/05/2000 08:07 PM 
Tim, Anne Koehler asked me to provide general employment terms for Project Triple Lutz.  I have spoken with persons in HR and benefits and have put together the following ""headlines"" for employee matters.  This list is a first cut, based upon my discussions with persons I could reach today; thus, it may not be exhaustive.  Details of certain issues, as described below, will have to be worked out. Of course, your team may choose to modify/delete items from this list, depending on the exact nature of the deal.  In the interest of time, however, I am sending this list to our lawyers at V&E to begin drafting the employee provisions of the sale agreement, which I understand you would like to see on Thursday.  Any modifications based upon your team's comments should not be difficult. The employment provisions may include: Buyer will hire all employees identified by Seller. The hired employees will have a title that is at least the same/equivalent as their title at Enron for a two-year period after closing. Buyer will give all hired employees credit for years of service at Enron for purposes of participation in Buyer's benefits (though not accruals), thus allowing the hired employees to have immediate participation in Buyer's benefit and compensation plans (e.g., 401k, vacation eligibility, etc.). The hired employees will be paid, at a minimum, the same base salary they earned at Enron (which would include the merit increase for 2001) for a two-year period after closing. The hired employees will receive the same level of total cash compensation as their last year of Enron employment for one full year after closing (the buyer can make this happen through base salary, bonus, etc.). The hired employees will receive benefits (e.g., health insurance, life insurance, etc.) that are comparable to those they had in their last year of employment with Enron (although we probably will have some discussions over our sick leave policy, which is generous). Buyer will retain severance benefits at Seller's level for one year after closing, after which the hired employees will be eligible for severance under the Buyer's plans (with credited service). Before Buyer terminates the employment of a hired employee (other than for cause -- to be defined), Buyer shall inform Seller, which will have the right to re-employ the employee at Enron, with credited service. For employees with less than 5 years of service, some concession for unvested portion of Cash Balance Plan may be necessary. Open issues/questions include: Equity:  What is to be done with unvested equity?  For example, in December, every Enron employee will be granted stock options worth 25% of their base salary (based on the Black-Scholes valuation).  Also, persons with other equity grants may forfeit those grants upon closing.  An evaluation of the various plans and participants will be necessary to determine exactly where any issues exist, as well as possible resolutions of those issues.  In light of the appreciation in Enron's stock, this equity issue may be significant. Pension:  What will happen to hired employees with potential eligibility under Enron's pension plan? If you have any questions about these issues, please give me a call at x 3-6401.  If I receive additional feedback, I will let you know. Thanks. Michelle 
Rick,  It sounds like this may satisfy CURE, but I question whether this is an appropriate payment.  I would want to touch base with the lawyers working on the deal to find out if there are any implications.  Any other feedback? Michelle Rick Johnson@ENRON 09/05/2000 09:16 PM 
Please review and comment on the attached inter-office memorandum, as soon as possible.  Thanks Rj 
Hoyt -- actually, we need only the New York office -- other locations should not be included.  Thanks.  Michelle Hoyt Thomas@ENRON 09/07/2000 08:33 PM 
Under the OWBPA or one of the laws similar to it, we have to present statistics to the employees over 40 who were offered the package.  Gloria, could you pull together two lists: one would have the names, titles and ages of everyone offered the package (Mo and the FX guys) and the other list will be the names, titles and ages of everyone else in the US in Enron Metals (including ST. Louis and Chicago but excluding Los Angeles), the people who were not offered it.  I know that we do not have titles for some of the Rudolph wolff folks at this time; please try to get their old titles at RW from the RW HR guy and we will use them.  We will need to submit this to Michelle Cash soon; we have to give that data to Mo before we can finalize his package. Thanks Hoyt 
I suggest using the entire New York office as the group.  It really doesn't matter because the bulk of the people being offered the packages are under 40, so our statistics look good either way.  Michelle Hoyt Thomas@ENRON 09/06/2000 06:43 PM 
Michelle, you define the NYC office as the group, and not the FX/Bullion traders as the group?  would it look better to show a small group, with almost all of them terminated, or a big group with only a few terminated? Michelle Cash@ECT 09/06/2000 05:33 PM 
Hoyt, As we discussed, even though Mo and Penner are not part  of this initial round, to be on the safe side, we should provide them with data regarding all persons in the group (defined as the New York office) who are provided with a release and those who are not.  The data should include age and title of persons offered packages, and then a separate list of age and titles of persons who are not offered packages. Once this data is pulled together, I will be happy to review it to ensure compliance with the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act, as the DOL has interpreted it. Thanks. Michelle 
FYI re:  Crane.  Michelle 
Attached is my preliminary report based on the information in the data room. There was not near enough information in the data room, and for the second time, there was no one from the Seller present at the data room who we could ask questions of. There are a couple of areas of concern.  There is still a lot of data to be furnished.  Much of the documents in the data room was not allowed to be copied. I have instructed Paul Blundy, the  attorney contact for our Canadian counsel to have documents sent to Rick. Rick, as you receive data that involves benefits, please send it to Dee. I provided a copy of our Q format to Roland, our Canadian labor counsel, to format and revise as need to fit the Canadian companies being acquired.  He seemed to be knowledgeable in labor relations, but will need actuarial help (as will we) in reviewing the benefit accruals for defined benefit plans. For the next two weeks, I will have my beeper and will check my phone messages as I find telephones in the wilderness. I also provided a hard copy of the attachment to the Enron deal guys before I left Toronto. Pat - Crane DDlgnce Q1.doc 
FYI re:  Crane 
Attached is my preliminary report based on the information in the data room. There was not near enough information in the data room, and for the second time, there was no one from the Seller present at the data room who we could ask questions of. There are a couple of areas of concern.  There is still a lot of data to be furnished.  Much of the documents in the data room was not allowed to be copied. I have instructed Paul Blundy, the  attorney contact for our Canadian counsel to have documents sent to Rick. Rick, as you receive data that involves benefits, please send it to Dee. I provided a copy of our Q format to Roland, our Canadian labor counsel, to format and revise as need to fit the Canadian companies being acquired.  He seemed to be knowledgeable in labor relations, but will need actuarial help (as will we) in reviewing the benefit accruals for defined benefit plans. For the next two weeks, I will have my beeper and will check my phone messages as I find telephones in the wilderness. I also provided a hard copy of the attachment to the Enron deal guys before I left Toronto. Pat - Crane DDlgnce Q1.doc 
Hello, girls. If Stacey can do it, so can I!  Here are the latest pictures of Cameron. These were taken right before the Baptism of my sister's third (can you believe it??) child, so he is all dressed up. I hope all is well with everyone. Love, Michelle 
Andrea, Brian and I were talking about the dissemination of this policy.  It seems as if it should come from your group and go out globally.  What do you think? Michelle 
Attached is a revised draft of the Employee Data Protection Policy, which is required because of directives by the European Union. Please provide me with any questions or comments on this policy. I would appreciate any comments by Monday, September 11, 2000 so that this policy can be rolled out quickly. Thank you. Michelle Cash 
FYI.  Michelle 
I am sending you our most recent ASAP.  Our ASAP's are our summaries of recent developments in employment matters.  This ASAP addresses the recent changes in the regulations related to affirmative action plans.  Employers which have contracts with the federal government, or contracts with federal contractors, must prepare and maintain affirmative action plans (AAPs) as long as they employ 50 or more employees, when the contracts are for $50,000 or more. The changes addressed in this ASAP are quite technical and require careful consideration. http://www.littler.com/nwsltr/asap_fed_affirmact.html Please double click on the above link to access the ASAP.  Let me know if you have trouble accessing this ASAP, and I can send you a hard copy.  You also may visit our website (www.littler.com) to review this and other publications by lawyers from our firm.  Feel free to forward this link or print a copy and distribute it to others within or outside your company.  In addition, let me know if you do not want to receive these updates, and I will delete you from my distribution list. Littler Mendelson is the nation's largest firm representing employers in employment and labor matters.  With approximately 400 attorneys in 30 office, we address more issues related to employment than any other law firm.  Please contact me if we can assist you with your AAP or other employment matters. Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
Hoyt, Here is a privileged and confidential legal memorandum regarding the Garden State modification of operations.  Let's discuss these issues tomorrow or Friday.  Michelle 
Pat McCarthy asked me to forward the enclosed memo. ****************************************************************************** ** The information contained in this e-mail message, together with any attachments thereto, is intended only for the personal and confidential use of the addressee[s] named above.  The message and the attachments are or may be an attorney-client or other privileged or protected communication.  If you are not the intended recipient of this message, or authorized to receive it for the intended recipient, you have received this message in error. You are not to review, use, disseminate, distribute or copy this message, any attachments thereto, or their contents.  If you have received this message in error, please immediately notify us by return e-mail message, and delete the original message. This notice is included in all e-mail messages leaving our firm.  Thank you for your cooperation. ****************************************************************************** ** - dhvg01!.DOC 
Please see the note below, which was forwarded to me by Richard Sanders, on Triple Lutz.  Michelle 
CPage:  Would you please forward this directly to Pat? Pat, For your information, Chris Tomko has resigned from GSP.  GSP has hired a consultant, Hoyt Thomas (who has been working as an Enron HR consultant for a few weeks), to handle interim HR responsibilities until GSP hires a new HR person.  I suspect that you will be involved in a lot of advice/counselling in the next few weeks as this transition occurs.  If you are available on Friday, I would like to have a phone introduction of you and Hoyt.   Would you please call my assistant, Twanda Sweet, at 713-853-6401, to let her know your availability so that she can set up a conference call?  Thanks a lot. Twanda, would you please set this up when Pat calls? Michelle cpage@phks.com on 09/20/2000 01:04:55 PM 
Pat McCarthy asked me to forward the enclosed memo. ****************************************************************************** ** The information contained in this e-mail message, together with any attachments thereto, is intended only for the personal and confidential use of the addressee[s] named above.  The message and the attachments are or may be an attorney-client or other privileged or protected communication.  If you are not the intended recipient of this message, or authorized to receive it for the intended recipient, you have received this message in error. You are not to review, use, disseminate, distribute or copy this message, any attachments thereto, or their contents.  If you have received this message in error, please immediately notify us by return e-mail message, and delete the original message. This notice is included in all e-mail messages leaving our firm.  Thank you for your cooperation. ****************************************************************************** ** - dhvg01!.DOC 
great, Andrea, shall we discuss rollout asap?  Thanks!!  Michelle Brian Schaffer@ENRON 09/18/2000 09:55 AM 
I'm comfortable with this approach. Michelle Cash@ECT 09/18/2000 01:13 AM 
Andrea, I don't think we need a certification.  I suggest an email mailout, with the policy residing on the hr web site.  It would be a good idea to place a link to the policy on all pages that involve HR data, such as PEP, comp data base, SAP HR, etc. Brian, what do you think? Michelle Andrea Yowman@ENRON 09/17/2000 04:21 PM 
Do you need any type of certification that the employee has read and accepts like the ""Certificate of Compliance""?  Can we put it on the front page of ehronline and HROL?  Should this just be an email mailout?  Should this reside on the hrwebsite? Michelle Cash@ECT 09/15/2000 03:08 PM 
Andrea, Brian and I were talking about the dissemination of this policy.  It seems as if it should come from your group and go out globally.  What do you think? Michelle 
Attached is a revised draft of the Employee Data Protection Policy, which is required because of directives by the European Union. Please provide me with any questions or comments on this policy. I would appreciate any comments by Monday, September 11, 2000 so that this policy can be rolled out quickly. Thank you. Michelle Cash 
Roberto, These are good questions, and, in fact, are ones to which I am not certain of the answer (at least for #2).  Let's get together next week to discuss the specifics of how this program works and then determine the issues. Twanda, would you please set up this meeting for me? Thanks.  Michelle Roberto Deleon@ENRON 09/21/2000 02:18 PM 
Enron will be implementing the Mailsweeper software shortly.  This application is primarily designed for email scanning/content filtering.  We have the following outstanding issue that need to be addressed before this application goes into production. 1. Legal disclaimer for out going mail.  (Propose verbiage listed below) IMPORTANT: THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT A BINDING CONTRACT. ENRON DOES NOT CREATE ANY CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS BY TRANSMISSION OF THIS EMAIL.  THIS MESSAGE IS INTENDED ONLY FOR THE USE OF THE INDIVIDUAL OR ENTITY TO WHICH IT IS ADDRESSED, AND MAY CONTAIN INFORMATION THAT IS PRIVILEGED, CONFIDENTIAL, AND EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.  IF THE READER OF THIS MESSAGE IS NOT THE INTENDED RECIPIENT OR THE EMPLOYEE OR AGENT RESPONSIBLE FOR DELIVERING THE MESSAGE TO THE INTENDED RECIPIENT, YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT ANY DISCLOSURE, DISSEMINATION, DISTRIBUTION, OR COPYING OF THE COMMUNICATION IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED.  IF YOU HAVE RECEIVED THIS EMAIL TRANSMISSION IN ERROR, PLEASE IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE SENDER BY TELEPHONE SO THAT WE CAN ARRANGE FOR ITS RETURN. 2. Under the new setup, all out-going mail (including remote sites i.e London) will be routed through Houston, processed through Mailsweeper and then sent to its final destination.  How can be sure that we are not in violation of a foreign country's privacy laws? Your comments on these issue is greatly appreciated. Regards, Roberto DeLeon 
Bob, there also are legal issues to address, so I appreciate your keeping me 
Chuck, Do we have a rescheduled date for the deposition of the plaintiff?  Given the correspondence I've been receiving about rescheduling other depositions, we probably should set forth a date in Nov/Dec and get a protective order from the court stating that it cannot be rescheduled.  Otherwise, even if we do ""agree"" on dates, there likely would be additional delays.  I am ready to hear what this guy has to say about my client. Let me know your thoughts.  Thanks. 
Drew, You are right on.  I do have the concerns raised in your prior email, but I did not want to commit those to writing.  I have asked to be kept in the loop, and will provide that input as needed in a meeting setting. 
Ginger, I cannot attend that meeting, as I am in another.  I will be out of the office the rest of the week, so check with Twanda Sweet, my assistant, 
I also want to be included in this discussion, but I do not want to commit my thoughts to writing.  So, count me in.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
For your information.  Michelle 
I am sending you our most recent ASAP.  Our ASAP's are our summaries of recent developments in employment matters.  This ASAP addresses the recent changes in the regulations related to affirmative action plans.  Employers which have contracts with the federal government, or contracts with federal contractors, must prepare and maintain affirmative action plans (AAPs) as long as they employ 50 or more employees, when the contracts are for $50,000 or more. The changes addressed in this ASAP are quite technical and require careful consideration. http://www.littler.com/nwsltr/asap_fed_affirmact.html Please double click on the above link to access the ASAP.  Let me know if you have trouble accessing this ASAP, and I can send you a hard copy.  You also may visit our website (www.littler.com) to review this and other publications by lawyers from our firm.  Feel free to forward this link or print a copy and distribute it to others within or outside your company.  In addition, let me know if you do not want to receive these updates, and I will delete you from my distribution list. Littler Mendelson is the nation's largest firm representing employers in employment and labor matters.  With approximately 400 attorneys in 30 office, we address more issues related to employment than any other law firm.  Please contact me if we can assist you with your AAP or other employment matters. Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
Andrea, I am supposed to follow up and work on our action plan for data integrity. However, I know that you are going to meet with David/Robert on the whole concept and that you proposed a work around for the near term after our sessions.  It appears as if our action plans will depend on the results of that meeting. I will be out of the office on Wed-Friday on business.  It looks like our action plan revisions are due on Friday (but, if necessary, I'll ask for an extension because of my travel).  In the meantime, you can meet with David/Robert and begin to look at revamping our prior efforts. Alternatively, you can reconvene the group and work on revising action plans without me.  (I am not sure how helpful I am in any event).  What do you think? Michelle 
TWanda, please print for me, including attachments.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Michelle, Attached are the summary reports and tasking letter that I had compiled for Falcon,  Peter indicarted that the due diligence and internal review was being strickly limited, since he is now sharing info with you, I wanted you to have the stuff I have commented on.  Rj. 
Kelly Killian Satel) 
fyi.  mhc 
Killian Satel) 2000 EEO-1 Surveys Deadline Extended September 25, 2000 The Joint Reporting Commission  of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) has extended the deadline for employers to file their 2000 EEO-1 Surveys from September 30, 2000 to October 30, 2000. Private employers with 100 or more employees and federal contractors with 50 or more employees and contracts of $50,000 or more, are required to file an EEO-1 report. The EEOC has recently completed its mail-out of EEO-1 forms, so keep checking your mail - it should be on its way!  If October 15th rolls around and you have not yet received your survey, you may call the Joint Reporting Committee at (757) 461-1213, or log on to www.mimdms.com, to request a copy. If you would like more information on this issue, please contact Kelly Killian Satel at (210) 299-3590 or 1-800-597-1166. 
I would suggest working through Sheila Knudsen and the Compensation Council to get this done Enron-wide.  Let me know if that isn't successful.  Thanks. Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
No, just hold on -- we're waiting for final settlement documents from Reliant, with the Ajello release.  Michelle ""Bill W. Ogden"" <bogden@ogwb.com> on 09/26/2000 09:36:57 AM Please respond to <bogden@ogwb.com> 
Hi Michelle...just a note; I haven't heard anything about the settlement, and have neither sent nor received a dismissal order. Is this ball in my court? Let me know. Best regards, Bill 
tweanda, please print this and save as a form.  Then, put the print out in the Merger, Acquisition, and Divestitures Notebook on myu credenza-- just stick it inside there.  Thanks.  MHc 
Bill, Here's my standard diligence check list. Thanks, Dee 
Dee, could you please forward to him your standard list?  Thanks a lot! Michelle 
Amy, this looks fine, except I would delete the provision about exceptions, because there really are none!  Thanks.  Michelle Amy FitzPatrick 09/28/2000 05:09 PM 
Michelle - Can you have a look at the attached compliance form and let me know if this is OK to send out to all employees with a copy of the policy? This goes back a while - sorry for the delay. Thanks! Amy 
Here are comments from Tom Moore regarding the proposed Services Agreement. I will circulate the draft SSD this week.  As always, I welcome additional feedback from the user groups. Michelle 
Michelle, I have reviewed the document and offer the following items for your consideration: 1.  Should we include the standard ""affiliate"" language for clarity and to maximize our flexibility? 2.  Can you tell me the basic differences between the PWD and SSD? 3.  Do we want to impose the Enron Code of Ethics referred to in para. 3a., Performance Standards? 4.  I personally believe that we should delete reference to the ""Staffing Service Fee"" in para. 4b and the ""Liquidation                Table"" in para. 4c.  These type of fees/factors are subject to many outside influences and can fluctuate considerably with the marketplace.  I think that we may lose some negotiations leverage by locking any such rates in the basic contract. Those kind of issues can still be worked on a case by case basis and incorporated into the contract by amendment, or possibly, the PWD. It looks like an efficient document, and it should save some time and effort as we progress.  Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions. Thanks, Tom Moore Global Strategic Sourcing x55552 Michelle Cash@ECT Sent by: Twanda Sweet@ECT 09/27/2000 03:42 PM 
Attached is a draft of the Agreement for Recruiting or Contract Personnel Services.  This draft combines the Master Services Agreement, the Agreement for Project Services, and the Staffing Services Agreement into a single, comprehensive document. Attached to this, as applicable, will be a Project Work Description (""PWD"") and/or a Staffing Services Description (""SSD"").  I understand that HR is working on a revised PWD. I will circulate the SSD in the near future.  It will contain a more specific description of staffing services (e.g. retained/contingency) as well as pay rates. Please review this draft to determine if it fits your needs.  Feel free to throw darts!  Let me know by return email if you have comments or questions. I will resolve as many as possible based upon your comments as well as those of others in Legal, and circulate a revised draft based upon those comments. Thank you. 
Gerry, this is too cryptic for me -- what was decided?  I'd like to go to the next meeting!  Thanks.  Michelle Gerry Gibson@ENRON 10/06/2000 10:56 AM 
Hello Folks: I wanted to quickly follow-up with a note on the Next Steps we agreed to this morning. We will distribute the balance of the meeting notes shortly. If I missed anything in the translation, please let us know... Thanks, Gerry G. Key Next Steps            Who / When Solicit Cindy Olson's help lining up McKinsey Consultant's (Suzanne) participation  David O. / 10-6 2. Convene small group that was present this morning and McKinsey      Gerry G. / by 10-17 Consultant to further define philosophical direction and a high level snap shot of the new and improved organizational model 3. Present high level model to Cindy. Prepare her to run by Jeff S.     Team / by 10-27 4. Present to Jeff S. - make decision on go or no go       Cindy O by 11-1 5. If decision is a go - convene more comprehensive team meeting to further define model  Team by 11-15 and implementation plan 
David,  I will have this re-reviewed by Oregon counsel, but it was scrubbed 
Cathy, Do we have an answer on Cirino? Thanks. 
Bill, I had asked Twanda to get a conference call with you and Dana Davis on Williams.  I hope that happened . . .   I would like to have a petition ready early next week.  It will be lawsuit only, not injunctive relief. I believe Ajello will be finalized this week.  I sent our signed version to Reliant last week, and I hope to have it signed by Ajello soon.  Once that happens, we can dismiss. Thanks.  Michelle ""Bill W. Ogden"" <bogden@ogwb.com> on 10/05/2000 03:42:23 PM Please respond to <bogden@ogwb.com> 
Hi Michelle... Just a reminder: I've heard nothing further on either the Ajello settlement or the new matter involving Alonzo Williams. I'm looking forward to lunch next Tuesday. Best regards, Bill 
Davie -- Meets many, but may have some developmen needs works just fine. I just don't want people to say someone is satisfactory and meets requirements when, in fact, there are developmental needs that are obvious when compared to persons in strong. So, I am happy with your proposal (although I suggest that your second proposal does not meet the ""fairly up"" goal). Cheers.  Mich David Oxley 10/09/2000 12:34 PM 
Mich, What's middle ground. I would prefer to keep satisfactory wording fairly up. This is what caused most concern at mid year in conjunction with our 20% guideline for that cluster ""We don't feel comfortable putting Joe in here given what it says - he really does an OK job"". My orginal pitch was meets many but may have some development needs relative to peers, or meets most or exceeds some and sucks in others. The latter is my personnel favorite. David Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
I have sent a mark-up of this to Dave.  Let's talk tomorrow around 10:00. Michelle Fran L Mayes 10/09/2000 01:48 PM 
your thoughts 
FYI -- Michelle 
FYI In case this issue comes up for you, be advised that in Oregon by statute the employer is required to provide a terminated employee access to his or her PH file and a certified copy  of the file upon request.  A copy of the statute is attached. Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal 1400 Smith, EB 4861 Houston, TX  77002 (713) 853-7557 (713) 646-5847 Fax KSulliv@Enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Here is the statute you were asking about.  Any questions, please call.... O.R.S. o 652.750 1999 OREGON REVISED STATUTES TITLE 51. LABOR AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS CHAPTER 652. HOURS; WAGES; RECORDS PERSONNEL RECORDS Current through End of 1999 Reg. Sess. 652.750. Inspection of records by employee; furnishing copy to employee; disposition of record on termination of employment; charge for copies. (1) As used in this section: (a) ""Employer"" has the meaning for that term provided in > ORS 656.005. (b) ""Personnel records"" do not include records of an individual relating to the conviction, arrest or investigation of conduct constituting a violation of the criminal laws of this state or another state or the United States, confidential reports from previous employers or records maintained in compliance with > ORS 351.065. (2) At the request of an employee, the employer shall provide reasonable opportunity for the employee to inspect, at the place of employment or place of work assignment, those personnel records of the employee which are used or have been used to determine the employee's qualification for employment, promotion, additional compensation or employment termination or other disciplinary action. At the request of the employee, the employer shall furnish a certified copy of such records. (3) Upon termination of employment, the employer shall keep the terminated employee's personnel records for not less than 60 days. At the request of the employee, within the 60-day period or at any time if the employer has retained the records at the time of the request, the employer shall furnish a certified copy of such records. (4) An employer may make only such charge for the services referred to in subsections (2) and (3) of this section as is reasonably calculated to recover the actual cost of providing the service. (1977 c. 861 o 2; 1985 c. 404 o 6) 
Here are the schedules.  MHC 
Attached for your review and input are initial cuts at the schedules for the draft P & S Agreement that we will be discussing on our call tomorrow morning.  You'll see that in many places the drafts are simply placeholders for information that some of you will need to provide, but hopefully they provide a useful starting point.  I  cannot overstate the importance of the schedules.  They have a direct impact upon the representations that ENA will be making to a potential purchaser and any errors in the schedules can result in serious financial liability for the company. We need to have our schedules for Pastoria ready for posting on DealBench by the end of this week. Thanks for your continued efforts.  I look forward to talking with you tomorrow. 
Hector/Valeria, Do we have a rule against heaters?  If not, that seems to be the easiest solution, as well as the ""dress warm"" advice.  I think that moving him would not be good -- his isolation could work against our goals here. Your thoughts? Michelle 
Steve, I hope that I did not educate her too well . . . It was great to see you, and be sure to let me know if you can use my help in the future. Michelle ""Stephen D. Statham"" <sstatham@texasbar.com> on 10/12/2000 09:04:38 AM 
Michelle - It was grand to bump in to you last night at Randalls.  Your son looks like a bundle of energy.  Your cookie insights were not lost on my daughter. She has secured my commitment to visit the bakery area first thing on our next trip. I'd say she considers it a good encounter. Take care Steve 
next steps 
Kay, I will be out attending a seminar -- but, don't hold it up for me. Thanks!  Michelle 
Finley, Can we schedule a conference call with the HR folks at Celgar? Thanks. 
All is fine -- no disparate impact in the selection.  But, I still would like to see data about why certain persons were selected.  Thanks.  Michelle Francisco deJesus@ENRON 10/12/2000 06:07 PM 
Michelle, Thank you. Can you pls share the results? Regards Frank Michelle Cash@ECT 10/12/2000 02:32 PM 
fyi. 
Cathy, what do we want to do with regard to Paskoff?  Remember, we were waiting until this week to respond to his requests for additional 
Cathy, Also, for persons over 40 who are signing waivers, we must provide them with the census data about persons under 40/over 40 who were offered a package, as well as their title and age.  Please make sure that happens, or our waivers will not be valid. Thanks. 
rkers compensation 
FYI. Also, I never heard back from Ilya's lawyer.  Did he sign? Thanks.  Michelle 
rkers compensation I am sending you links to our newest ASAP's on California wage and hour and workers compensation issues.  Our ASAP's are our summary of important developments in employment law.  If you do not have employees in California, these ASAP's probably are not relevant to your company. The first ASAP summarizes recent developments relating to whether or not computer professionals and nurses must be paid overtime.  The link to this ASAP follows: http://128.241.163.162/nwsltr/asap_sb88.html The second ASAP is a general overview of the current state of the workers' compensation system in California.  This may even be of interest if you do not have employees in California because the issues that arise in California often occur in other parts of the country.  The link to this ASAP follows: http://128.241.163.162/nwsltr/asap_insurance.html Please notify me if you have problems opening this link.  I can send you a hard copy of the ASAP if necessary. In addition, feel free to print or forward this link to others in your or other companies, or use it in any other manner that assists your organization. In addition, let me know if you do not wish to receive these updates. Littler Mendelson is the nation's largest law firm devoted exclusively to representing management in employment and labor matters.  With approximately 400 lawyers in 30 offices around the country, our firm handles more employment matters than any other law firm.  Feel free to contact me if you have questions about the issues addressed in these ASAP's or about any other employment law issue. Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
rkers compensation 
Jim, FYI. The second link here is about workers' comp insurance in California. Michelle 
rkers compensation I am sending you links to our newest ASAP's on California wage and hour and workers compensation issues.  Our ASAP's are our summary of important developments in employment law.  If you do not have employees in California, these ASAP's probably are not relevant to your company. The first ASAP summarizes recent developments relating to whether or not computer professionals and nurses must be paid overtime.  The link to this ASAP follows: http://128.241.163.162/nwsltr/asap_sb88.html The second ASAP is a general overview of the current state of the workers' compensation system in California.  This may even be of interest if you do not have employees in California because the issues that arise in California often occur in other parts of the country.  The link to this ASAP follows: http://128.241.163.162/nwsltr/asap_insurance.html Please notify me if you have problems opening this link.  I can send you a hard copy of the ASAP if necessary. In addition, feel free to print or forward this link to others in your or other companies, or use it in any other manner that assists your organization. In addition, let me know if you do not wish to receive these updates. Littler Mendelson is the nation's largest law firm devoted exclusively to representing management in employment and labor matters.  With approximately 400 lawyers in 30 offices around the country, our firm handles more employment matters than any other law firm.  Feel free to contact me if you have questions about the issues addressed in these ASAP's or about any other employment law issue. Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
Twanda, would you please schedule a meeting with me, Hector, Sheila W., and Brian Schaffer re:  follow up to the Bashen information?  I would like to have this group discuss how to close the loop with Sally's employees and implement any recommendations for follow-up. I think the meeting with last approximately 1 1/2 hours. 
Please print this and save it to my document list.  Thanks.  Michelle 
I agree with your assessment.  Thanks.  michelle Brian Schaffer@ENRON 10/16/2000 03:04 PM 
Michelle: By the way, I talked with Marty last week about Bashen's files.  He said that they were on the way to him and he would forward to me immediately. Therefore, I expect to get them any day now.  I assume I should review immediately; let me know if you think otherwise. Brian 
I suggest contacting Peggy Banzak for a contact in Mexico.  Michelle Fran L Mayes 10/17/2000 12:28 PM 
Please read the original email below.  Unfortunately I never responded - however as I read through the material today, I am unable to answer any of these questions.  Do we have a contact (outside counsel) who can provide assistance. Fran 
I haven't heard anything from Alice yet.  MHC Amanda Curless@ENRON 12/01/2000 12:01 PM 
Michelle, I talked with Accounts Payable and we are sending payments to the UK. The address is 5355 HighStreet, Egham, Great Britain. Thanks! Mandy 
Anne, I have reviewed the P&S Agreement for Triple Lutz.  From my perspective, it generally looks fine.  I have a few comments, and invite Pat Mackin to add any he may have, in particular based on his review of Section 4.14. In Section 4.7(c)(iv), there is a reference to any contract obligations.  I believe this would include employment contracts, which do not appear to be identified specifically on any schedule unless the annual amount exceeds $250K.    We may want to clarify that the disclosures are consistent with the provisions of Section 4.13(iii). Section 4.8 provides that we will not enter into any employee benefits not required by law.  However, given that closing is pushed out so far in the future, we may want the flexibility to provide incentive bonuses for key personnel to stay with the company through closing.  This may be done with the Buyer's consent, but we may be tying our hands.  Section 6.2(e) contains a similar restriction on making payments to officers/directors. In addition, Section 4.8 states that we won't enter into or amend any employment contracts.  We do not renew employment contracts at a single time, and the contracts of key personnel may expire.  Do we want to tie our hands and be prohibited from amending/extending the agreements?  Section 6.2(l) also prohibits the modification/amendment of contracts with employees. In Section 4.10, the wording ""(other than Environmental Laws)"" suggests that we are not in compliance with environmental laws.  Rephrasing that sentence to refer to the provision of the Agreement may be preferable. In Section 4.11(d), we promise that we haven't provided any gift of any kind to customers.  I don't think we can say that, given that we regularly host client development outings (e.g. Rodeo BBQ tickets, golf tourneys, etc.) and provide Enron goodies to people all the time.  Perhaps a limitation on de minimus gifts would be more accurate.  Also, a reference to our Code of Ethics may work here. In Section 4.13(a)(iii), does the $250K threshhold include only cash value, 
Pat, I have reviewed this agreement and provided my comments under a separate email.  I would appreciate your review of Section 4.14 in particular, given your familiarity with the compensation plans and benefit plans.  In terms of timing, your comments probably can go into the next draft, but if you have a chance to look at 4.14 today, it would be great! Thanks a lot! Michelle 
Here is a set of comments by Pat Mackin on the Triple Lutz agreement. Cynthia/Mary, do you have anything to add? Michelle 
Document attached - Triple Lutz m2.doc 
please excuse the delay on this -- If possible, I would like the following documents copied from the data room: Leaf River:  Tab No.'s 20, 119-140, 146, and 168-170 Woodland:  Tab No.'s 107-130, and 136 Brunswick:  Tab No.'s 102-127, and 137 Thanks. 
One other item:  Could you please request all employment contracts and change 
Karen, does  Sean have his art on a web site anywhere?  I have someone who 
Andrea, This looks good. I have two nits:  First, the street value of our phone book is $1k, not $1. Also, ""loosing"" people should be ""losing"" people. One other risk is that the descriptions of what people are doing could reveal confidential business strategies to our competitors because there is no filter on what employees can/can't put.  In other words, if an employee is working on developing something within Enron that our competitors do not know about, expertfinder could provide them with that data/strategy. One other recommendation (by Scott) was to allow access only from an Enron facility -- not remotely.  This would manage risk of a person taking a laptop to a competitor and also would protect against hackers. Given that employee talent is a major asset, we should find ways to move that talent around while also protecting it from being picked off from the outside. Thanks. 
Here is the attachment.  Thanks for the update on Delainey.  Michelle 
They must be hurting for business -- but I thought you might want to take a look at their site. L, T 
A message of ""holiday greetings"" from a JGS alum... Ashford.com (www.ashford.com) would like to offer the employees, students and alumni of Rice University a 20% discount off of the items on our site - just in time for the holidays! Whether you are looking a fantastic gift for a loved one, or the perfect corporate gift, you can now save 20% off Ashford.com's irresistible selection of luxury brands*. We have a vast collection of fine watches, vintage watches, pens, designer jewelry, sunglasses, ties, scarves, diamonds, handbags and leather goods - all just a click away. The e-coupon code is 6B368AAAAA - expiration date is 12/31/00, not good with any other promotional offers. Feel free to pass it along. Here are the details: To save the 20%, simply enter the coupon code on your online order form during checkout. *There are some restrictions on the coupon. It is not valid on loose diamonds, select jewelry items, fragrances, items on our Corporate Gifts site and gift certificates. Each coupon is only valid for one use per email. It is not valid with any other coupon, special, or promotion. And finally, it expires on December 31, 2000 - so act fast! HAPPY HOLIDAYS & HAPPY SHOPPING! Take care. Amy Oates Fitzgerald Director of Brand Marketing Ashford.com 713-369-2380 aoates@ashford.com 
fyi.  Michelle 
Craig - My Data Room Request will in part be duplicate to the materials that Michelle Cash will be asking for.  Because I'm in a separate Location - Please provide me copies from the data room, (as requested on the attached word doc.) and FED-EX direct to my Portland Office Address Rick Johnson -  Enron Corp. 121 SW Salmon St. ( 3WTC0306) Portland,  OR.  97204 Thanks, Rj. Craig Hiddleston 10/17/2000 07:33 PM 
post-data room visit In response to the question posed by numerous people today, we will have access to various GP representatives through calls coordinated through Morgan Stanley but it is unlikely that you will have access to GP contact people to repeatedly ask questions. As requested this afternoon, please provide me a detailed list of the documents listed on the data room index that you want copies of (and other relevant documents) no later than 10AM on Wednesday morning. Thanks, Craig 
Hector, we need to check with Kriste Sullivan on this.  I have a vague recollection about a group of employees going to Dynegy, and we had to send a demand letter to prohibit the improper use of Enron information.  She was involved, so could you please send her the email you sent to me?  Then, we 
David, I believe the agreement was signed.  It would have been a Corporate Services Agreement.  I believe that Shonnie Daniel or Steve Van Hooser worked on this.  I have cc'd this email to them so that they can provide you with a copy, forward it on to the appropriate person, or let me know if one never was signed, in which case I can prepare a new version. Thanks.  Michelle Enron Capital Management 
Here is the latest.  Michelle 
FYI, particularly the part about the performance management system.  Let's see what kind of data we can get about the Microsoft evaluation system to find the differences.  Thanks.  Michelle 
What are your thoughts? Jane J. Allen Enron Corp Global Employee Services Phone - 713/345-5064 Fax - 713/646-9501 
Hi. Some interesting reading. Although it doesn't explicitly relate to foreign assignments, I am aware that our assignments to and from Europe are predominately white males and I am assuming that this is the case globally as well.  I am sure that if Enron was ever filed with a lawsuit for discrimination, this could be an area that would negatively affect the outcome of Enron's defence as foreign assignments generally provide career development opportunities that most non-white males at Enron are missing out on. Tara 
Would you let me know which you choose?  I may need some of them as a backup!  Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 10/23/2000 10:47:10 AM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Hi, Brooks. He wants the newest Lyle Lovett album -- the soundtrack to Dr. T and the Women.  Also, he is getting a Playstation II from me for his birthday (they don't come out until this week, so he doesn't have it yet), so you could find him a game for the new system.  He has said that he wants a new clock radio, with AM/FM (I don't think he wants CD/tape player on it), with battery backup -- Sony would be best.  Also, he always wears short-sleeved Polo shirts, size XL.  He prefers basics, in solid colors such as white (he never can have enough of those), navy, khaki, or light blue. Let me know if you need any other suggestions. We are looking forward to your visit, especially Cameron.  He always is talking about how Santa is going to bring presents for him and Madison! Take care, and say ""hi"" to Marianne. Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 10/20/2000 09:08:25 AM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Michelle, Can you give me any ideas regarding birthday and x-mas presents for the man who has everything? Hope all is well there. Brooks 
I have a copy of the signed Employee Services Agreement between Bridgeline and ENA.  Would you like a copy of it?  Michelle Enron Capital Management 
Sure, I'll send letters.  The one for Paskoff will go out today.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
Amy, this is way late, so sorry.  I suggest running it by the HR leadership team.  The email list can be obtained from Gerry Gibson at corp.  If there are HR openings, and she would be interested, they would most probably be the best people to assess her skills.  Thanks.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
What about payrolling through an agency so that he is on a contract-to-hire basis?  That way, we can say that the intent is to hire, but that we are evaluating the situation before making a regular, full-time offer.  Customers 
Michelle, Mark Tawney has a situation where he wants to hire a Manager level person in the Chicago office on a trial basis as a Marketer of Weather products. This is a trial effort and if it fails, there would be no job for him in Houston or otherwise.  Mark is thinking that a 6-9 month evaluation period would be adequate to determine success.  How would you recommend that we structure an offer that gives us an out if the initiative fails.  We thought about hiring him as a contractor or consultant in order to minimize our commitment, but we're concerned that if our potential customers learn of his employment status, it may appear to our customers that we are not committed to the effort or the market.  Mark is willing to be completely above board with the candidate that this may or may not work. My belief is that we are going to have more of this exact situation in EGM. Kevin McGowan is also looking for a Marketer for Coal.  The people they are targeting have sales backgrounds and would not be re-deployable in other parts of Enron. My goal is to minimize our exposure on the front end! Shanna 
Nathan, Ted Bland is the Enron wholesale person responsible for all recruiting for one of the business units I support. I actually spoke with Ted today about you.  He is working on scheduling you for a meeting, but he has had some difficulty in finalizing schedules.  So, there is no need to follow up, because he will get with you in a few days. Hope all is well. Michelle ""Nathan Wesely"" <Nathan.Wesely@roystonlaw.com> on 10/24/2000 01:50:23 PM 
Michelle, I received a call from Ted about 10 days ago about a possible interview.  Ted said he would call to schedule an interview at the beginning of last week, but I have not heard back from Ted.  I would like to email Ted to remind him I am still interested.  Who is Ted? Can you forward his email address? Thanks for your help! Nathan Wesely Royston, Rayzor, Vickery & Williams, L.L.P. 600 Travis, Suite 2200 Houston, Texas 77002 Email: nathan.wesely@roystonlaw.com Website: www.roystonlaw.com Telephone: 713.224.8380 Facsimile: 713.225.9945 ******************Internet Email Confidentiality Footer******************* Attorney-Client Privileged, Attorney Work Product, and Confidential information may be contained in this message.  If you are not the addressee indicated in this message (or responsible for delivery of the message to such person), you may not copy or deliver this message to anyone.  In such case, you should destroy this message and kindly notify the sender by reply email. Please advise immediately if you or your employer does not consent to Internet email for messages of this kind. 
please print this and attachments.  Thanks.  MHC 
Craig, I spoke with Fran Mayes about being the HR person for the Leaf River 
Anne, Would you please re-send me the Employee Matters Agreement for Lutz?  I have deleted my electronic copy and need to send it on to the HR people. Thanks. 
My understanding now on this is that we are talking about the Bridgeline deal.  In that deal, Enron and Texaco both assigned employees to work for the Bridgeline entity.  It is done under a secundment arrangement, and the employees are sent there via an assignment letter.   (Pat, you may recall that we visited about this process a while back, although I may not have given you the transaction name at the time). So, currently, all Enron personnel assigned to Bridgeline actually are Enron employees.  I am not aware of any change to that structure.  Fran, do you know of any changes?  Are we now going to transfer all of those employees to the Bridgeline entity?  Those answers would help. Michelle FMackin@aol.com on 10/25/2000 09:34:27 AM 
Andrea, would it be possible to update our list to show the current progress on the ""30 days"" items?  I think you have a better handle on the timelines than I would.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Hi Folks: Enclosed is the agenda for the Corporate HR Leadership Team Meeting that will take place tomorrow in the Executive Board Room (50th Floor) from 9:00 to 10:00. Please note...we will meet in the Board Room not the Dining room on the Mezzanine level... Our primary meeting objective will be to review where the team stands implementing the short term Action Plans for the Key Focus Areas established at the retreat. I understand that some very good work has been done and that several potential ""Wows"" are either currently being implemented or about to launch. We look forward to getting the latest status reports relative to accomplishing these critical activities and keeping the momentum flowing. Regards, Gerry Gibson 
Marty, Gracie Presas is asking about training for ENA for harassment.  As we discussed, I think it would be a good idea to offer several sessions to Enron global wholesale and ENW, to maximize efficiency.  So, I told her to call you. The lawyer contact on this is Kerry Notestine at Littler Mendelson.  His number is 713-652-4748.  Thanks. 
I am not at all surprised!!!!  Michelle Andrea Yowman@ENRON 10/25/2000 03:58 PM 
Already working on it... ay Michelle Cash@ECT 10/25/2000 03:38 PM 
Andrea, would it be possible to update our list to show the current progress on the ""30 days"" items?  I think you have a better handle on the timelines than I would.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Hi Folks: Enclosed is the agenda for the Corporate HR Leadership Team Meeting that will take place tomorrow in the Executive Board Room (50th Floor) from 9:00 to 10:00. Please note...we will meet in the Board Room not the Dining room on the Mezzanine level... Our primary meeting objective will be to review where the team stands implementing the short term Action Plans for the Key Focus Areas established at the retreat. I understand that some very good work has been done and that several potential ""Wows"" are either currently being implemented or about to launch. We look forward to getting the latest status reports relative to accomplishing these critical activities and keeping the momentum flowing. Regards, Gerry Gibson 
Marty/Tim, Here is pricing information about harassment prevention training.  Feel free to call Kerry directly about his availability. Michelle 
Michelle: Thanks for the call.  I have not heard from Marty Christian (spelling?) about training but will be glad to talk to her about scheduling.  Regarding the cost, the price I quoted before was $1500 for half day, and $2500 for a whole day.  The actors are $100 apiece per presentation ($300 total for each presentation). Typically, I can do three sessions in a half day and five in a whole day.  Thus, total cost with the actors for a half day would be $2400 and $4000 for a whole day.  One issue with the actors is that they do shows in the morning at their theater so afternoons usually are better for them. I know they have some Fridays in November in which they are open full days. Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
I wasn't sure you'd know who sent it, but good guess!  Trey was quite pleased with himself.  Later.  Michelle Jeff Hoogendam <Jeff@SmartPrice.com> on 11/27/2000 09:37:29 AM 
Trey- Thanks for the wonderful ""Eyes of Texas"" message.  Bastards. It looks like A&M is losing the recruiting war. Jeff Jeff Hoogendam - President & CEO SmartPrice.com, Inc. 
More re  Canary 
Finley,  I haver made two additions to the labor  and employment document request, Items # 16 & 17.  I have also expanded the scope of request # 4. Please see attached - rev1. Thanks Rj. 
Rick, Per my voicemail, attached is a request list Davis & Company has already submitted.  If you have additional items please let me know.  Thanks, Finley 
Yes, thanks.  I was aware of that joyous news.  I am going to see if I can get a copy of the petition to review all the allegations in detail.  Thanks. Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
How about this: Any future grant/payment described on this worksheet is subject to appropriate committee approvals and previously-defined performance standards; the use of the term ""guaranteed"" on this worksheet does not modify the terms and conditions of any such payment/grant. Too wordy? Michelle Mary McKendree@ENRON 10/26/2000 04:56 PM 
Michelle -- Per our conversation, the term sheets list any future grants/bonus payments as outlined in employment agreements.  The description that prints along with the amount may say ""Guaranteed Grant"".  Of course we all know that it's contingent upon Admin/Comp Committee approval.  However, to keep down any question, we thought about adding an asterick and saying: ""Any future referenced payments are contingent upon attaining appropriate 
please save as a form and print for me.  I'll revise then.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Michelle, please find below the standard offer letter that is being used for new hires, per the request of Shanna Funkhouser. Thanks, Ambroshia, 
Pat, Hello!  I am sending to you a memo from Stuart Zisman here at Enron.  He has a question that I am forwarding to you, since I don't know the answer.  Would you please give him an answer today, if possible? Thanks a lot! Michelle 
Attached is a memo relating to the E2 transaction.  Please review the memo and respond as soon as possible.  We need to receive all feedback promptly as we expect to revise and post the revised Purchase & Sale Agreement by the end of business today (Monday).  Thanks in advance. Stuart Jinsung, please forward this to Don Miller ASAP. _________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com. Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at http://profiles.msn.com. - GENERAL COMMENTS TO REVISED PSA FOR E2.doc 
Fran, I think we should get together tomorrow to discuss the issues around this deal.  Could you get with Twanda to do that?  THanks.  MIchelle Fran L Mayes 10/30/2000 08:58 AM 
Kathy Neal and I will attend the meeting on Tuesday. Fran Michelle Cash 10/29/2000 03:15 PM 
Craig, We were supposed to have a conference call with labor/employment personnel early next week.  Has that been scheduled yet?  Also, I will not be able to attend at 4:00 on Tuesday, but will see if someone from HR/benefits can be there. Michelle Craig Hiddleston@ENRON 10/27/2000 06:36 PM 
Please attend a meeting in EB2988 at 4 pm on Tuesday, October 31st. If you are unavailable to attend please have someone represent you at the meeting. The plan for the meeting is to: Go through individuals' findings regarding completeness of information available in data room binders, issues encountered that my impact the value of the assets to Enron, and any additional information required for Leaf River and Woodland. Provide an update regarding the status of Woodland and deal stopper issues. The issue relating to Woodland and the hesitancy to fully proceed on the due diligence relates to two potential deal stoppers -- security of fiber supply and labor union issues. Our preference was to better understand these issues before fully engaging in the due diligence process, and incurring the associated costs, but the constrained timing has limited our ability to accomplish that. At this stage it appears as though we will proceed to submit a mid-November bid, and therefore we should proceed with all necessary due diligence for Woodland. Craig 
FYI.  Michelle 
Dave, I left you a voice mail that I am available to assist in this process at your convenience.  Let me know how you want to proceed. Michelle Enron Capital Management 
Sorry about the earlier email! The following contains a summary of  high-level employment/labor issues based upon the review of the documents in the data room here in Houston.  We still need to have a conference call with the HR team at GP to ascertain the climate of labor relations and other employment issues. Woodland 1.  Employment Claims:  In the list of insurance matters, there are several employment-related claims.  Those include sexual harassment allegations, disability discrimination, retaliation, and mistreatment.  It is unclear whether those are ongoing claims or not.  I would question whether the mill has had harassment prevention training, and if so, when.  Also, are there other employment claims that are not identified in the documents? 2. Labor Union matters:  Rick Johnson is going to review the collective bargaining agreements.   I am waiting on a list of union grievances, which is supposed to be forwarded to me today. 3.  I saw nothing about employment contracts, change of control agreements, or other documents that may require a buyer to provide benefits after closing for either Woodland. Leaf River 1.  Litigation Summary:  The company provided a summary of litigation.  Three of the four are personal injury claims -- one is a fall down stairs by a delivery person (settled on 7/14/00); another is a contract employee who was injured when a propane truck on a forklift exploded in his face, and the third is another contract employee who fell down some stairs (settled 7/27/00).  The fourth is a race discrimination claim from 1991, which has been on hold due to the plaintiff's bankruptcy.  The summary states that the corporate law department has more details about the personal injury claims. We may want to obtain more detailed information as we proceed in this transaction.  Are there other litigation matters or pending claims?  (E.g., EEOC). 2.  No employment contracts.  I saw nothing about change of control agreements or other documents that may require a buyer to provide post-closing payments. 3.  Workers Comp:  There are several workers comp claims for 1999 and 1998. I would suggest that our risk/insurance groups review these claims to make sure that they are not unusual. Dee Lenfest is going to review the material on employee benefits and should provide a separate analysis on that topic. Michelle 
Fran, I have reviewed the documents in the data room, and I have the following thoughts. 
Laura, do you need any more information from me on this point?  Michelle 
At one point in time, many years ago, we required EDS to have a DOT drug and alcohol testing program for their DOT-covered employees, who were the IT people working at our sites, since they were doing the same job as Enron employees and were considered DOT.  We should probably look carefully at their current jobs to determine if they are DOT-covered or not.  If they are performing DOT-covered jobs, their employer should be required to have a DOT Drug and Alcohol Testing program, if not it is not necessary to test them on a random basis.  The only random testing this company allows is for DOT-covered  and safety sensitive employees in NEPCO and OEC.  Also we have no means to test employees from other companies since our random selection is accomplished through our payroll system, nor do we want to be in the business of testing other's employees.   Hope that helps.  Susan T. Michelle Cash@ECT 10/23/2000 11:10 AM 
Susan, The question of random drug testing of non-DOT employees who work side-by-side with DOT employees has come up (see below).  My understanding is that we do not do random tests except for DOT personnel.  First, am I correct?  Second, have we ever done random testing in this type of situation?  Your experience would be helpful. Thanks. Michelle 
Michelle, could you please review the correspondence below.  Thanks. 
Laura, Sounds like they have a precedence for doing it.  This is a question for Michelle Cash.     I would not test non-Dot employees unless there was a significant reason.   However, I have worked in a DOT environment and understand the desire to test them all.   I don't think it is good practice. Gary Laura Wilkinson@ENRON 10/20/2000 02:47 PM 
Gary, what is your opinion of non-DOT employees being subject to random drug tests?  This IT department supports the Gas Controllers,  who are subject to random drug tests.  My only concern is if we enforce this policy with one IT group and not the rest of the group, is that fair? 
Gary, I am going to look into this and get back to you once I have researched this question.  Thanks. Gary Kenagy 10/20/2000 08:16 AM 
During the EDS to Enron transition I asked about getting the IT staff supporting Gas Control into the random drup testing program within Enron. Per the transition agreement, EDS had continued the program with an external drug testing vendor after we were outsourced to EDS back in 1985. We need to get our staff into the Enron internal program. Not everyone in my group is effected, but most are. I've listed the names below. The Gas Control support staff is framiliar with the program and aware that they are required to participate. I haven't heard anything about it from anyone since the transition back to Enron so I am assuming this slipped through the cracks. The staff listed below all support Gas Control, have access to the SCADA systems, and could have significant impact to the operation of the applications used in Gas Control to monitor and control the pipeline. Thanks, Gary Basha, Clifford Kenagy, Gary Little, Steve Margoliner, George Marshall, George Moore, Michael Hagen, Robert Poole, Kenneth Thompson, Rodney Sayegh, Angela Smith, Mike (new hire) Rodriguez, Ruben TBD (Vasu Sashti) TBD (Tracey Brown) 
Should that be 2 months or 3 months?  we haven't done less than three, and I don't think it is a good idea to go below that.  MHC Kim Melodick 10/31/2000 01:48 PM 
Please prepare a 2 month non-compete agreement for Thomas Swank.  The start date of the agreement will be 10/24/00.  Thanks for your help.  If you need furhter information, please do not hesitate to ask. 
more . . .  I've forwarded this issue to Dee.  MHC 
Felicia,  Does this sound right to you?  Just wanted to confirm.  Thanks. Michelle 
Michelle and Peter, we (GSP) have determined that we are not a federal government contractor.  Based on feedback from GSP employees, we do sell newsprint to printers who print material for the federal government, but we are a 'second-tier' contractor, not a 'first-tier' contractor.  (Pat McCarthy, the local employment law attorney that I have been using, used these terms when David Howe and i talked to him today.)  Pat informed us that second-tier contractors do not have to abide by all the federal government requirements for contractors. Based on this, GSP does not plan to file EEO-1 reports or prepare affirmative action plans.  In addition, we do not feel that we are subject to an OFCCP audit. Michelle, since you left me the voicemail telling me that we are not included in the Enron EEO-1, i assume that also means that Enron's status as a government contractor does not force us to prepare EEO-1 and AAPs. Please advise us if you feel we have made incorrect assumptions on any of this. Hoyt 
Pat, thanks for your comments.  I agree 100%.  Michelle PS.  My friend who is a photographer is doing a show in Dallas this week.  I suspect that we'll see info on his web site pretty soon. FMackin@aol.com on 11/03/2000 10:15:19 AM 
Michelle, It looks like there are a lot of deal issues to be negotiated.  You have a good hand on the legal issues for the employment matters.  If a form of indemnity is required, make it very broad to cover all risks, including, but not limited to, selection, unlawful discrimination and for permitting tortuous interference with employment. I assume that you have received my November 1 memo regarding Bidder D. Redlined SPA. I listened in on the labor relations call yesterday, but there didn't seem to be anything for me to comment on.  I do have one observation about the call. While I don't know anything about the transaction, the conversation about employment and benefits would have been facilitated if Enron had previously submitted a written schedule of all of the documents and information Enron required in completing its due diligence review, and used that written schedule to make reference to the data that has not yet been received. Enron should not let the other side's data schedule or lack of a complete schedule control Enron's due diligence agenda.  Enron should know in advance what information it wants and use a check off sheet to manage the due diligence process.  That way, the other side will better understand what Enron expectations are. I use this kind of data management tool all of the time and it is very helpful to be able to refer to when it was presented to the other side, how long they have had it and what items are still missing. I heard nothing like that in the conference call yesterday.  It was though people were thinking of things as the conversation went along. Pat 
Tim, I just got your letter about  the January trial setting.  When did we learn of that setting?  How do we accomplish the goal of keeping our business people free from depositions at year-end?  Can that be done?  Michelle ""Tim C. Carrico"" <tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com> on 11/03/2000 08:30:19 AM 
Michelle, I just spoke to Brian Glasser; he informed me that Clonch wants 1.2 mil, therefore, no settlement.  However,  Clonch and Cline have agreed to meet again this coming Monday to discuss settlement.  Apparently, Clonch is going to go back and look at his numbers. Tim C. Carrico Spilman Thomas & Battle, PLLC email: tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com phone:             (304)-340-3856 cell phone:       (304)-549-2681 fax:                  (304)-340-3801 address:           300 Kanawha Blvd., East Charleston, W.Va. 25301 
Dee, could you please forward to Steve Van Hooser our usual checklist on employee matters for diligence purposes?  That would be helpful.  Thanks. Michelle 
Anne, I got you an invitation to the Preview Party for Wednesday!  Eden Sholeen is going to call you with the details. 
fyi. 
As I receive additional information I will update this report. Thanks! Kathy Neal Manager, Human Resources ENA x57803 
fyi 
FYI - former Enron employees Jeffrey Bortniker and Lynda Clemmons are the new Chief Executive Officer and President/Chief Operating Officer (respectively) for Element Re, a new unit of XL Capital Ltd..  The company will provide weather risk management insurance, reinsurance and financial products. Please let me know if you have any questions or would like us to look into this further. (first announced September 25th) Thanks, Kristin 
Felicia, This is a merchant asset, which we currently own 100%, but plan to sell down in the coming months.  It absolutely has separate HR functions from Enron -- they do not participate in Enron benefits, and we are working hard to prevent any claims that we could be a joint employer with it. Thoughts? Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
FYI re:  outside counsel in B.C. who are handling diligence.  I spoke with Dean today, and he appeared to be asking all the right questions.  MHC 
Kathy, I think we should do some sort of an assignment agreement.  It does not have to be as long and involved as our current ones, but we should paper it up.  Michelle Kathy Neal@ENRON 11/06/2000 11:08 AM 
Michelle: Gary Hanks is putting together a plan on how to better utilize his team in supporting Bridgeline with their gas control training.  It may result in having his team rotate during this one-month cross-training.  With this, do we need to put together assignment letters indicating they will be rotating on a monthly basis or can this just happen without an assignment letter.  I don't think we need to add any additional compensation for this one-month cross training.   All expenses will be paid by Texaco. Let me know what you think. Kathy Neal Manager, Human Resources x57803 
Cheryl, I am taking 12/1 off as a vacation day -- so, let's play!!!  I have a hair appointment Saturday, which I cannot really change this late in the year. So, do you want to get a haircut, manicure, or anything else beautifying while you are here?  If so, I'll book something for you. There is no way we would have you babysit.  In fact, we have a  sitter for Saturday night. so we can go somewhere fun for dinner and maybe even see a movie or do anything else you may want to do. I can't wait for your visit!! Michelle Cheryl.Brinkman@mckhboc.com on 11/06/2000 11:34:38 AM 
I'm all set for my Houston visit.  I can't wait.  I get in to Houston about 3:30 on friday Dec, the day after your anniversary.  If you and Trey are going out for your anniversary I can babysit!  I don't want to cramp your anniversary celebration. As soon as the travel agent e-mails my intenerary I'll send it on to you. Cheryl 
Dear Gerald, I received and reviewed your email, and I will check with my clients on your proposal.  I expect that I will have an answer later this week. I understand that my assistant has sent you the documents by email.   Let me know if you did not receive them. Feel free to give me a call to discuss. 
Cindy, Tim, Marly, Pam, and Neil -- I will make my house available for you do do the first week of laundry this weekend.  How about 6:30 am on Saturday?  After that, you can schedule it at your convenience for the rest of the 4 weeks. I am prepared for you ; I bought Tide, Downey, and Bounce, as well as spray starch for all the ironing that needs to be done -- don't worry, I only have 5-6 full-sized tablecloths and about 15 of Trey's shirts to be ironed.  That shouldn't take too long. See you then. Michelle David Oxley 11/06/2000 01:45 PM 
Gerry, Michelle and I rather enjoyed our discussion at lunch time. It was highly productive and I would like to thank those who took the time out of their very busy schedules to attend. In no small way related to the high calibre of the people at the meeting and the skills of the facilitation, we accomplished a great deal. For ease of reference and to make sure you each are clearly on you action before our next meeting, here is a summary: General Minutes The group voted David, Michele and Gerry as the most intelligent and attractive members of the HR community Gerry had the most interesting strory about disciplining people who are always late for meetings by having their houses visited by a radical Californian based sect who do the reverse of an exorcism. The average IQ of those present was measured as over 200 (thanks to Michelle). Gerry won the tic tack tow tournament I won the biggest feet competition Follow up action points It was agreed that Tim, Cindy, Marla, Neil and Pam would do the laundry for Michelle for the next 4 weeks. It was agreed that Tim, Cindy, Marla, Neil and Pam would clean David and Gerry's houses every Tuseday and Thursday for the next month (Gerry is concerned about his antique china and has requested that Neil doesn't visit his home). All the wrongs of the world are to be solved and the necessary actions implemented by Tim, Cindy, Marla, Neil and Pam by next Monday at 5pm central time (including third world debt and world hunger). Thanks David 
Go ahead and file it.  Thanks.  Michelle ""Bill W. Ogden"" <bogden@ogwb.com> on 11/07/2000 02:48:58 PM Please respond to <bogden@ogwb.com> 
Hi Michelle -- just a reminder note that no one has told me to file the Alonzo Williams petition. Have the powers that be decided to let this one ride? And, more importantly, when can we reschedule lunch? Let me know;  -- Bill 
On lunch, I've asked Twanda to reschedule.  thanks.  mhc ""Bill W. Ogden"" <bogden@ogwb.com> on 11/07/2000 02:48:58 PM Please respond to <bogden@ogwb.com> 
Hi Michelle -- just a reminder note that no one has told me to file the Alonzo Williams petition. Have the powers that be decided to let this one ride? And, more importantly, when can we reschedule lunch? Let me know;  -- Bill 
for your entertainment.  mhc 
Hector, I met with David Baumbaugh today about Bridgeline.  Apparently, we have sent Trey Logan over there to replace O'Neal Winfree.  We thus need to do an assignment letter for Logan.  Could you please provide me and Twanda with the particulars so that we can paper it up? Thanks. 
Here is the latest piece of information.  Michelle 
Molly, could you please forward the ""thanks, but no  thanks"" template letter to me?  I will send it to her since she interviewed.  For persons who don't interview,  I think the ""no thanks"" letter can come from HR. Thanks for your assistance on this. Michelle 
Dear Michelle---Just a note to tell you I thoroughly enjoyed meeting you today.  Thank you for taking time to learn more about my background and experience and to share your Enron story with me.  I am very interested in the available position because I welcome the opportunity to learn new things and improve my skills.  Although I have not worked at a law firm, I am fortunate to say that my in-house experience has been very hands-on with most of the transactions and all of the labor matters handled without outside counsel.  I discussed this point at some length with Elizabeth Sager and left a reference list with Molly McGee in HR.  Looking forward to hearing from you soon, Alice Ginsburgh 
Yes, we will reword it.  In fact, we are looking at a review of the entire application.  Michelle Candace Womack 11/13/2000 08:53 AM 
Michelle - I have not heard back about the Application, and I wanted to be able to tell Ryan something before she leaves.  Wednesday is her last day. Can you please let me know if you will be able to reword this section? Thanks. Candace 
Michelle - In the meeting we had last month regarding background investigation policies, we discussed the area on our current application where the candidate is asked to disclose convictions, etc.  In some instances, the candidate could truthfully disclose nothing, yet have a misdemeanor conviction for theft, possession, etc.  or other charges that would be potential disqualifiers for a position with Enron.  Since the question is poorly phrased, you had recommended that this piece be reworded, and you suggested that Ryan Seleznov bring it up in the Recruiting Council.  I brought this up to Ryan, but she felt that this would probably be more in the province of your area or Felicia Acevedo.  Would you like to take this task on, or would it be more appropriate to ask Felicia Acevedo to work on it? Thanks. Candace 
Any interest in either of these candidates?  They are presented by a headhunter.  Let me know.  Michelle 
Richard, Wayne and Roberts 
Janie,  Has Peggy been hired yet?  If not, would you please forward me her resume again?  Thanks.  Michelle Michelle Cash 10/16/2000 12:14 PM 
Let's see what happens.  MHC 
Fran, any word from Nancy?  Thanks.  Michelle 
This email summarizes my conversation on employee matters with Nancy Quigg Young, which took place  yesterday. Logistics.  The most significant area for the employee matters involves the logistics of the buyer hiring the employees.  In the original agreement that we proposed, we would allow the buyer to interview employees, select the ones they wanted to hire, and require that the buyer keep them employed for at least 2 years.  Their counter proposal was that they got to hire who they wanted, have us pay severance on all others, and they would have no obligation to keep them for any length of time. Since then, there have been discussions internally that we want all employees to go with the sale, with the buyer taking the action of severing employees (although we would fund severance costs under the Enron formula).  I raised that proposal with Nancy, who is going to discuss it with her business clients. In the alternative, if the buyer selects the people it hires, and we have to eliminate the jobs for those not selected, I informed her that we would require an indemnity for claims made against us based on the selection process. Base Salary.  The counteroffer made by Bidder D does not provide that the employees hired from HPL would receive at least the same base salary as they earn at Enron.  This is important because a severance payment could be due if an employee does not accept a job at a lower salary.  Karen appeared unwilling to agree to pay divested employees outside of the buyer's salary bands (note:  paying outside of a salary band in the context of an acquisition is standard procedure, but she was acting as if it were an incredibly difficult accomplishment).  She claimed that one problem lies in not knowing the exact salary for each employee at issue.  We pushed back on this and offered to provide average salaries for each job level, to allow her to get comfortable with the ranges.  Fran Mayes will provide this information, which may eliminate this issue. Bonus.  In our proposal, we asked that the hired employees receive a total bonus payment that is at least equal to what they earned their last year at Enron.  Bidder D did not provide any such guarantee.  Karen said that she needed our ""bonus formula"" before she could commit to this.  I explained that we have no bonus formula and that our bonuses are based on performance of the company and the individual.  We previously had provided total bonus amounts for the entire group, and she could make a determination of bonus costs on a consolidated basis for her deal folks to calculate.  j She said she was ""not sure if they could get there"" on the bonus issue, particularly since she thinks our bonuses will be extra high this year.  I offered to discuss whether we could modify the amounts by averaging the last two years, which she thought might make it better. Unvested Equity.  When I explained to her that we could not supervest unvested options, she indicated that there was a ""possibility"" that the amount could be made up in stock options of Bidder D.  I think this is the ""win-win"" position, but I think it will have to be pushed. Vacation.  Their vacation plan maxes out at 4 weeks; ours maxes out at 5 weeks.  She thinks she may be able to propose that, for the first year the employees work for the buyer, they can use the vacation accrual from Enron, but after that, they are subject to the buyer's vacation plan.  This approach is reasonable. WARN Act.  There is the slight possibility of WARN Act implications, in the unlikely event that closing occurs within 60 days of signing.  The WARN  Act requires a company to give employees 60 days notice of a plant closing or mass layoff.  This situation probably would qualify.  Thus, we would have to give 60 days notice to all employees who potentially may be affected.  We can pay in lieu of notice, in the event that the closing (and thus the terminations) occur sooner than 60 days after closing, but we may want to spell out who bears that cost, if it is incurred. Benefits.  Other than the vacation benefit described above, it appears that Bidder D has benefits that generally are of the same nature as Enron's benefits.  Thus, allowing the hired employees to participate in the buyer's benefits plans, with credit for years of service at Enron, likely would be comparable to their situations here. I expect that we will hear from Bidder D with their proposals on these issues once Fran provides Nancy with the salary data.  Please let me know if you have any questions. Michelle 
Bill, I'll be in tomorrow; let's discuss this matter.  Thanks.  Michelle ""Bill W. Ogden"" <bogden@ogwb.com> on 11/14/2000 11:00:45 AM Please respond to <bogden@ogwb.com> 
Michelle: The Alonzo Williams matter landed in the 127th (Sharolyn Wood). I'm keeping after them on the citation but we do not have service yet. I'll let you know as soon as we do. Best regards, Bill 
For AMPS:  Here are the HR questions for diligence.  Michelle 
Hector -- we do not know the details of how this will work.  It has not been finally decided.  I would suggest that we remain vague about the whole thing until the deal, if it happens, is signed.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
You should have it.  I sent it yesterday.  Michelle Twanda, could you confirm?  Thanks.  MHC Carol Coats 11/15/2000 05:18 PM 
Michelle, Sheila asked that I check with you to inquire about the status of Bill's agreement. She was just wondering where we stand with it.  We appreciate your help in answering this question for us. Thanks so very much, Carol 3-6613 
Elizabeth, any interest in the second resume here?  We are interviewing the first guy already.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Richard, Wayne and Roberts 
fyi.  Does this give you enough information?  MHC 
The CFO of Power Systems Manufacturing is  Wayne Garrett. John Howton is forwarding your e:mail to Wayne's attention to review and answer questions.  Wayne and I both feel that this is a clean transfer of employees.  The story is as follows: 1.  They are payroll by ADP in Fort Lauderdale.  The representative is Sonia Vassell (954) 717-6975.  The code that they are currently using is PXU for processing payroll.  These employees are paid bi-weekly. 2.   Benefits = Health, Dental and Life in which Wayne does not have a problem with continuing to pay their benefits until the end of the year. This will allow us approximately 1 1/2 months to set the AMPS company up (effective 1/1/2001). 3.  Vacation is 15 days which include sick and vacation.  Wayne company will pay any accrued vacation given us a chance to determine how we want to structure vacation effective 1/1/2001. 4. 401K is administered by Fidelity.  There is not a company match.  So, we can figure out how  to handle 401k going forward. 5.  Disburse Power is the holding company that Wayne has set up to hold these employees until AMPS is established. I asked John Howton who is responsible for getting the joint venture company ""AMPS"" set up and he will call me back with that answer.  Maybe you know the answer. It seems to me that this is a clean set up.  We need to determine how we want to process their payroll, how to handle benefits and which policies we want to put in place for these employees.  John has a spreadsheet with employee information that he will forward to our attention. I know you will have more detailed questions and we will need to funnel everything through John Howton. Let's schedule a time to discuss in more detail tomorrow. 
Dan, here is info on AMPS.  Some of these points should be included in deal documents.  Michelle 
The CFO of Power Systems Manufacturing is  Wayne Garrett. John Howton is forwarding your e:mail to Wayne's attention to review and answer questions.  Wayne and I both feel that this is a clean transfer of employees.  The story is as follows: 1.  They are payroll by ADP in Fort Lauderdale.  The representative is Sonia Vassell (954) 717-6975.  The code that they are currently using is PXU for processing payroll.  These employees are paid bi-weekly. 2.   Benefits = Health, Dental and Life in which Wayne does not have a problem with continuing to pay their benefits until the end of the year. This will allow us approximately 1 1/2 months to set the AMPS company up (effective 1/1/2001). 3.  Vacation is 15 days which include sick and vacation.  Wayne company will pay any accrued vacation given us a chance to determine how we want to structure vacation effective 1/1/2001. 4. 401K is administered by Fidelity.  There is not a company match.  So, we can figure out how  to handle 401k going forward. 5.  Disburse Power is the holding company that Wayne has set up to hold these employees until AMPS is established. I asked John Howton who is responsible for getting the joint venture company ""AMPS"" set up and he will call me back with that answer.  Maybe you know the answer. It seems to me that this is a clean set up.  We need to determine how we want to process their payroll, how to handle benefits and which policies we want to put in place for these employees.  John has a spreadsheet with employee information that he will forward to our attention. I know you will have more detailed questions and we will need to funnel everything through John Howton. Let's schedule a time to discuss in more detail tomorrow. 
Dorie, I think this looks good.  I have two tweaks: 
This is great!!!! Can you believe all that is going on in Sunny Florida?  I called Nat/Laura to get their take on the mayhem, but I haven't been able to talk with them.  I got a voice mail from Laura that Jesse Jackson was leading a demonstration up the street from their house!  They are right in the thick of it. Later.  MHC Cheryl.Brinkman@mckhboc.com on 11/15/2000 06:02:01 PM 
yes, forwarding a joke - I'm sorry, but it's pretty good. Cheryl > To the citizens of the United States of America... > > In the light of your failure to elect a President of the USA and thus to > govern yourselves, we hereby give notice of the revocation of your > independence, effective today. > > Her Sovereign Majesty Queen Elizabeth II will resume monarchial duties > over all states, commonwealths and other territories. Except Utah, which > she does not fancy. Your new prime minister (The Rt. Hon. Tony Blair, MP > for the 97.85% of you who have until now been unaware that there is a > world outside your borders) will appoint a minister for America without > the need for further elections. Congress and the Senate will be > disbanded. > > A questionnaire will be circulated next year to determine whether any of > you noticed. > > To aid in the transition to a British Crown Dependency, the following > rules are introduced with immediate effect: > 1. You should look up ""revocation"" in the Oxford English Dictionary. > Then look up ""aluminium"" . Check the pronunciation guide. You will be > amazed at just how wrongly you have been pronouncing it. Generally, you > should raise your vocabulary to acceptable levels.  Look up > ""vocabulary"". Using the same > twenty seven words interspersed with filler noises such as ""like"" and > ""you know"" is an unacceptable and inefficient form of communication. > Look up ""interspersed"" . > > 2. There is no such thing as ""US English"" . We will let Microsoft know > on your behalf. > > 3. You should learn to distinguish the English and Australian accents. > It really isn't that hard. > > 4. Hollywood will be required occasionally to cast English actors as the > good guys. > > 5. You should relearn your original national anthem, God Save The Queen, > but only after fully carrying out task 1. We would not want you to get > confused and give up half way through. > > 6. You should stop playing American football. There is only one kind of > football. What you refer to as American football is not a very good > game.  The 2.15% of you who are aware that there is a world outside your > borders may have noticed that no one else plays American"" football. You > will no longer be allowed to play it, and should instead play proper > football. Initially, it would be best if you played with the girls. It > is a difficult game. > > Those of you brave enough will, in time, be allowed to play rugby (which > is similar to American football, but does not involve stopping for a > rest every twenty seconds or wearing full kevlar body armour like > nancies). We are hoping to get together at least a US rugby sevens side > by 2005. > > 7. You should declare war on Quebec and France, using nuclear weapons if > they give you any merde. The 98.85% of you who were not aware that there > is a world outside your borders should count yourselves lucky. The > Russians have never been the bad guys. Merde is French for ""shit"". > > 8. July 4th is no longer a public holiday. November 8th will be a new > national holiday, but only in England. It will be called Indecisive Day. > > 9. All American cars are hereby banned. They are crap and it is for your > own good. When we show you German cars, you will understand what we > mean. > > 10. Please tell us who killed JFK. It's been driving us crazy. > > Thank you for your cooperation. > 
I thought you might get a kick out of this.  Michelle 
yes, forwarding a joke - I'm sorry, but it's pretty good. Cheryl > To the citizens of the United States of America... > > In the light of your failure to elect a President of the USA and thus to > govern yourselves, we hereby give notice of the revocation of your > independence, effective today. > > Her Sovereign Majesty Queen Elizabeth II will resume monarchial duties > over all states, commonwealths and other territories. Except Utah, which > she does not fancy. Your new prime minister (The Rt. Hon. Tony Blair, MP > for the 97.85% of you who have until now been unaware that there is a > world outside your borders) will appoint a minister for America without > the need for further elections. Congress and the Senate will be > disbanded. > > A questionnaire will be circulated next year to determine whether any of > you noticed. > > To aid in the transition to a British Crown Dependency, the following > rules are introduced with immediate effect: > 1. You should look up ""revocation"" in the Oxford English Dictionary. > Then look up ""aluminium"" . Check the pronunciation guide. You will be > amazed at just how wrongly you have been pronouncing it. Generally, you > should raise your vocabulary to acceptable levels.  Look up > ""vocabulary"". Using the same > twenty seven words interspersed with filler noises such as ""like"" and > ""you know"" is an unacceptable and inefficient form of communication. > Look up ""interspersed"" . > > 2. There is no such thing as ""US English"" . We will let Microsoft know > on your behalf. > > 3. You should learn to distinguish the English and Australian accents. > It really isn't that hard. > > 4. Hollywood will be required occasionally to cast English actors as the > good guys. > > 5. You should relearn your original national anthem, God Save The Queen, > but only after fully carrying out task 1. We would not want you to get > confused and give up half way through. > > 6. You should stop playing American football. There is only one kind of > football. What you refer to as American football is not a very good > game.  The 2.15% of you who are aware that there is a world outside your > borders may have noticed that no one else plays American"" football. You > will no longer be allowed to play it, and should instead play proper > football. Initially, it would be best if you played with the girls. It > is a difficult game. > > Those of you brave enough will, in time, be allowed to play rugby (which > is similar to American football, but does not involve stopping for a > rest every twenty seconds or wearing full kevlar body armour like > nancies). We are hoping to get together at least a US rugby sevens side > by 2005. > > 7. You should declare war on Quebec and France, using nuclear weapons if > they give you any merde. The 98.85% of you who were not aware that there > is a world outside your borders should count yourselves lucky. The > Russians have never been the bad guys. Merde is French for ""shit"". > > 8. July 4th is no longer a public holiday. November 8th will be a new > national holiday, but only in England. It will be called Indecisive Day. > > 9. All American cars are hereby banned. They are crap and it is for your > own good. When we show you German cars, you will understand what we > mean. > > 10. Please tell us who killed JFK. It's been driving us crazy. > > Thank you for your cooperation. > 
I'll call you tomorrow.  Michelle Ann Ballard@ENRON 11/16/2000 05:08 PM 
Michelle -- I doubt that you would have documents of the type described in the memo, but given that the Enron Corp. officer signing the filing has personal liability for failure to identify the documents requested by the form, we need to poll all those involved in the transaction.  To save you time, why don't you call me, and I will give you the two minute synopsis of the memo, so that you can confirm that you know of no responsive documents. x35285. Michelle Cash@ECT 11/16/2000 04:32 PM 
Lou, based on our earlier conversation, I have not taken time to review this.  Let me know if I should review it.  Thanks. Michelle Lou Stoler on 11/14/2000 02:00:46 PM 
I previously sent to you Ann Ballard's memo re the HSR filing, and to date, no one has responded.  Prior to making this filing which is a prerequisite for closing, we need to hear back either way----please confirm this directly to Ann at 713.853.5285. 
I'll take care of it today.  Michelle Karen E Jones 11/16/2000 06:05 PM 
Michelle, Sam told me that Gene Tackett and Kathy Russeth have approved the form of consulting agreements you prepared, and everyone is ready to sign.  Please send initialled, execution copies to Sam, and we will have Dave Parquet sign them.  I need to request urgency on this, as the documents are relevant (from a due diligence perspective) to our larger Pastoria transaction.  Thanks. 
Tim, Do you think these depositions will take a day apiece?  Or, can we schedule more than one in a day?  Let me know, so that I can arrange schedules. Thanks for the update!  Good work. Michelle ""Tim C. Carrico"" <tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com> on 11/17/2000 10:26:21 AM 
Michelle, We had the pretrial hearing today before Judge Kaufman.  He granted our Motion to continue the trial date. The new date is February 20, 2001.  The next pretrial conference is scheduled February 2, 2000, and all of the depositions must be completed by that date.  I further informed the Judge that Enron would make George McClellan, Tom McQuade, Mike Beyer, Dan Reck, and Andrea Frate Bennett available in January, 2000.  He will hold Enron to this. Therefore, Please obtain dates for the depositions of George McClellan, Dan Reck, and Tom McQuade, in Houston Texas during the month of January 2001.  It is my understanding based on past correspondence between you and Chuck Woody that the Enron Depositions in Houston will occur at Locke Liddell & Sapp LLP, 3400 Chase Tower, 600 Travis Street, Houston, Texas 77002-3095.  Further, please do not schedule any of the depositions on January 16th or 17th because the Plaintiff's counsel will be unavailable on those days. Furthermore, please provide a deposition date for Mike Beyer in Pittsburgh Pa. during the Month of January 2001.  Again,  the Plaintiff's counsel will not be available the 16th and 17th of that month. Finally, please provide a date for Ms. Frate for January 2001 if possible that is not on the 16th or 17th. I will provide Plaintiff's counsel with a notice of the availability of Enron employees upon receipt of your response to this E-mail. Thanks Tim C. Carrico Spilman Thomas & Battle, PLLC email: tcarrico@spilmanlaw.com phone:             (304)-340-3856 cell phone:       (304)-549-2681 fax:                  (304)-340-3801 address:           300 Kanawha Blvd., East Charleston, W.Va. 25301 
please print this plus attachments and file in Garden State file.  Thanks. MHC 
Gentlemen, Michelle Cash in Legal has reviewed the engineering advertisement that we put together for campus and had the comments below.  Michelle is concerned about how much we tie Enron into the document. I revised the document as Michelle suggested, see engradv3.  It does not have quite the flow that the preceding document had. Let's discuss this document next week when we are all in New Jersey.  David, you might want to talk to Michelle about the bigger issue of keeping Enron's name separate from GSP, her phone number is 853.6401 ______________________________ Forward Header __________________________________ 
Author:  ""Michelle.Cash@enron.com"" <SMTP:Michelle.Cash@enron.com> at RICHMOND 
David, Michelle, Fran, see the following.  Michelle, once you have your discussion with David Howe about the Enron influence, perhaps we need to have some writeup that states what we should say and what we should not say. Hoyt ______________________________ Forward Header __________________________________ 
Author:  Hoyt H. Thomas at GARFIELD 
Author:  David Freeswick at GARFIELD 
Author:  Hoyt H. Thomas at GARFIELD 
Author:  David Freeswick at GARFIELD 
FYI re:  California law.  Michelle 
I am sending you a link to our newest ASAP on California disability issues. Our ASAP's are our summaries of important developments in employment law. If you do not have employees in California, this ASAP probably is not relevant to your company.  This ASAP addresses a recent bill signed into law that expands the definition of disability beyond federal law and creates a new cause of action against employers for failing to engage in the reasonable accommodation interactive process. http://www.littler.com/nwsltr/asap_cal_disability.html Just double-click on the link to open it.  Please notify me if you have problems opening this link.  I can send you a hard copy of the ASAP if necessary. In addition, feel free to print or forward this link to others in your or other companies, or use it in any other manner that assists your organization. In addition, let me know if you do not wish to receive these updates. Littler Mendelson is the nation's largest law firm devoted exclusively to representing management in employment and labor matters.  With approximately 400 lawyers in 30 offices around the country, our firm handles more employment matters than any other law firm.  Please contact me if you have questions about the issues addressed in this ASAP or about any other employment law issue Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
Hoyt, If GSP LLC  would assume the liability at the time of return, why would it risk bringing them back for light duty work?  Why not wait until they are fully released, particularly if one of them is going to sue under workers comp scheme? Also, Hoyt, you need to be careful about revealing conversations with GSP counsel to MG -- I noticed you had cc'd someone from Media General in the prior email.  We don't want to waive any privileges. Michelle HThomas@gspcorp.com on 11/15/2000 06:10:00 PM 
Peter, we have two long-term worker's comp cases whose accidents happened before Enron bought GSP.  We would like to bring them back to do light-duty work, to get them in the swing of working again and also to get some adminstrative work done. I am concerned that bringing these employees back to work on light duty will cause these cases to become an Enron liability rather than an MG liability. I discussed this with Pat McCarthy, the labor and employment law attorney we are using in NJ, and he said that the liability would typically not transfer to GSP just because we brought them back . . . it would still be an MG liability, UNLESS THE EMPLOYEE HURT HIMSELF AGAIN.  In which case, GSP owns it. However, Pat said that a lot of what determines the ownership of the worker's comp cases is written into the purchase and sale agreement. He said that there may be language that addresses an employee's return to work from worker's comp.  I know that we have an ongoing dispute about worker's comp with MG at this point.  What would be your recommendation on bringing these employees back to work? As a bit of additional info, one of the two employees seems eager to come back . . . the other one does not.  An employee told me that the second employee actually has a lawsuit filed against MG/old GSP about his injury. 
Trey, The following items are on my Christmas list: 1.  Boggle game 2.  Joe Jackson CD:  Night & Day II 3.  Pottery Barn Large Organizer:  Catalogue number 48-2806305 ($69) 4.  Monnogrammed Travel Alarm Clock (Pottery Barn)  Catalogue # 10-2811784 ($30) 5.  Monogrammed Business Card Holder (Pottery Barn) Item # 12-33756186 ($30) 6.  Hermes or Hermes-type scarf 7.  Wood picture frames -- painted black is ok -- for 5x7 prints 8.  Drink coasters Let me know if you have any questions or want more specific information. 
Attached is the resume of Dominic Carolan, who currently is working at Global E&P.  He is looking to move elsewhere within Enron, given that the assets in Global E&P are going to be sold. I understand that you are looking for a lawyer with oil and gas experience. He might be a good candidate.  I met him today, and he is pleasant and professional. If you are interested in interviewing him, let me know, and I will get it scheduled. Thanks.  Michelle 
Michelle, I refer to my earlier voice messages and (I hope) a conversation you had with Stephen Wallace a week or so ago. I would welcome the opportunity to meet with you, learn more about ENA and discuss what professional opportunities might exist within the ENA legal department. I will be in London for most of next week but other than that, I would be able to meet at your convenience. I have attached a copy of my resume for your reference and look forward to hearing from you. Regards, Dominic Carolan 
Julia, On Garden State matters, how do you want to handle the signing of documents? Currently, I have been receiving documents from outside counsel and initialling them before signature.  Based upon Hoyt's email below, there may be a desire to have a more expeditious process. I would suppose the answer would depend on how heavily our legal department is going to be involved in GSP work.  Given our discussion last week, I would not think that there would be a desire to deviate significantly from the standard Enron process, but it is not my call. I would appreciate your thoughts. Michelle 
Michelle, we talked about this at David's staff meeting last week and he seemed to want to develop a quicker process on approval when a lawyer such as Ann Murray or Pat McCarthy was involved. Hoyt 
I asked David Howe about this issue.  He said htat he wants to have an attorney's initials on the document before he signs them.  So, I guess it needs to go through me for now.  Michelle HThomas@gspcorp.com on 11/03/2000 02:12:00 PM 
Michelle, we terminated Bill Nycz October 12, he is now ready to sign the release that Pat McCarthy wrote up. Once bill signs this, we will need to get a company signature pretty quickly to pay him expeditiously (i would like to cut the check as soon as his 7 days are up).  I assume that David Howe needs to sign it . . . does David have to have your approval to sign something like this? When Pat writes contracts for us, do i still need to get you to sign off on it before David Howe signs it?  If a management employee of GSP who is not an Enron employee signs a contract, do we have to have Enron legal approve it? Hoyt (See attached file: nyczoutp.doc) 
Dianne, Thanks for all your work for the Travel Club.  I never make a meeting, but really enjoy the tickets, etc. One question I have is whether Enron has any special relationships with Disney.  Are we a corporate client of Disney?  My old law firm had some sort of relationship with Disney that let us get great deals, early entry into the parks, etc., so it may be worth looking into. Thanks again. Michelle Cash 
Felicia, I am going to take a vacation day on Friday.  How about Thursday or Monday? Twanda, ignore my earlier email. Michelle Brian Schaffer@ENRON 11/27/2000 02:24 PM 
Yes 
Attached are copies of Dean Crawford's correspondence to the  Employment Standards Branch and to Celgar.? These documents are in  Microsoft Word format. ? Lynn Scrivener Davis & Company (604) 687-9444 x.  364 lscrivener@davis.ca - LTemp stds - Celgar request.doc - LT Cargill enc. authorization.doc 
Thanks for the info.  I just need simple, basic frames.  No decorations or anything.  That way, they can go anywhere, and aren't specific to a decor, theme, time of year, etc.  So, painted wood or black resin probably are the best.  I could use 5x7"" the most. Trey is going to get Playstation 2 once they become available, so you may want to find a game for the new machine.  Also, since it has a DVD player attached, he will need DVDs to play on it.  I already got him Being John Malkovich and the Grinch, but he has no others. We are looking forward to your visit.  Trey, Cameron and I are going to the Nutcracker ballet on the 26th.  Do you and Marianne want to go?  I am sure that Kay would love to watch Madison, and I would think that we still could get tickets if you are interested.  Let me know. See you later. Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 11/28/2000 08:45:00 PM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Would you let me know which you choose?  I may need some of them as a backup!  Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 10/23/2000 10:47:10 AM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Hi, Brooks. He wants the newest Lyle Lovett album -- the soundtrack to Dr. T and the Women.  Also, he is getting a Playstation II from me for his birthday (they don't come out until this week, so he doesn't have it yet), so you could find him a game for the new system.  He has said that he wants a new clock radio, with AM/FM (I don't think he wants CD/tape player on it), with battery backup -- Sony would be best.  Also, he always wears short-sleeved Polo shirts, size XL.  He prefers basics, in solid colors such as white (he never can have enough of those), navy, khaki, or light blue. Let me know if you need any other suggestions. We are looking forward to your visit, especially Cameron.  He always is talking about how Santa is going to bring presents for him and Madison! Take care, and say ""hi"" to Marianne. Michelle BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil (Cash, Brooks D.) on 10/20/2000 09:08:25 AM Please respond to <BDCash@bth12.med.navy.mil> 
Michelle, Can you give me any ideas regarding birthday and x-mas presents for the man who has everything? Hope all is well there. Brooks 
please print this and attached and put in the Project Canary Due Diligence file.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Attached are copies of Dean Crawford's correspondence to the  Employment Standards Branch and to Celgar.? These documents are in  Microsoft Word format. ? Lynn Scrivener Davis & Company (604) 687-9444 x.  364 lscrivener@davis.ca - LTemp stds - Celgar request.doc - LT Cargill enc. authorization.doc 
Thanks.  I frequently pick up my first job after I complete my second shift at home.  That's why I got the nifty flat screen for my computer -- jealous??  Michelle ""Notestine, Kerry"" <KNotestine@littler.com> on 11/27/2000 02:16:36 PM 
Kerry, is this necessary?  I don't agree to all the terms in here, and I really don't want to spend a lot of time with ELT to negotiate the agreement.  For example, the part where we will be billed for developmental costs if we cancel within a certain period of time.  From my perspective, that is inappropriate since I spent more time than ELT on developing this product, and  you are simply delivering a product that you and I already prepared and completed on several occasions across North America.  There will be one new scripted section, but that should be from the actors, and it should not be significant.  Also, there are not appropriate confidentiality provisions, etc.  So, I would have to negotiate it with ELT for it to be acceptable to us. The last time, you just billed for time, and the actors billed separately. I prefer that approach, if we can do it that way.  If I am being a major prima donna and it creates a big problem for you internally, let me know, and I can review it and comment back to ELT. Thanks.  Michelle 
Michele, I can start working on the dates and location as soon as we have the ""go 
FYI.  Michelle 
maybe.  He was in today and met with Mark Taylor, Travis, and Lance, to positive results.  I certainly could ask him if he's interested in trading. Leslie Hansen thinks highly of him.  Michelle 
Thanks, I received it.  It is the assignment letter that I prepare for everyone at Bridgeline, so we can tailor it to your needs.  Let's get together and discuss how you want to proceed.  Michelle Enron Capital Management 
looks good to me.  Thanks!  Michelle 
Barbara Gray, Alan Aronowitz, Dan Rogers Enron North America Corp. 
Hello! An ENA employee wrote a book that was published in Russia.  There have been three editions, and the publisher wants her to do a 4th.  The topic is technical analysis, which is what she does here at Enron.  In this 4th edition, she will be using public data, her own PC, and working on her own time.  However, given that she has been at Enron for 6 months, she obviously would apply some of the knowledge she has gained here in the revision of the book.  She would not divulge any Enron confidential or proprietary information, however. What are your thoughts on whether she could be able to do this?  She is willing to let Enron be a co-author, although as a practical matter, I do not think that would be worthwhile.  My opinion at this point is that she can do it, so long as it is on her own time and using her own resources, and, of course, provided that she reveals no Enron-specific  information.  I welcome your perspective, however, given that this is a new one to me. Thanks for your thoughts. 
sounds fabulous!!!  See you Friday -- is a place/time confirmed yet? Michelle Blaine@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 12/06/2000 05:38 PM 
Gang. The big jewels show will be on Sunday the 17--how about 3pm-7pm--come whenever you want.  My new place will still be uninhabitable then, so it will be at the Houstonian Hotel.  Details on Friday. 
Sure, Twanda, would you please forward? Thanks!  Michelle Don Iacobell@ENRON 12/06/2000 04:49 PM 
Y'all: Can we get them a standard Consulting Services Agreement?  If not, please give me a call so we can continue working with them. Thanks! Don Iacobell 53962 
Please submit an eRequest for this access. For future requests, please use our new online request system, located at http://itcentral.enron.com.  For assistance on how to use E-request, please go tohttp://itcentral.enron.com/data/services/training/documentationurl/ for the online training guide or call the Resolution Center @ x31411. Thank you, IRM michelle.cash on 12/07/2000 11:00:13 AM 
This is a request for Michelle Cash to have the Winzip Program installed on her computer.  Her location is EB3823. Please chare to CO# 0413 RC# 105660. If you have any questions, please contact me at 713-853-9402. Thanks. Twanda Sweet 
Thank you!!  Michelle FMackin@aol.com on 12/06/2000 05:17:24 PM 
Michelle, Attached is the document I sent you in Feb, 2000 regarding the waiver for Oxley. It is a single document and you don't have to unzip it. Pat - Waiver Benefits1.doc 
please calendar.  thanks.  mhc 
Please mark your calendar for the following meeting. When:    Friday, December 8th Where:   EB27C2 Time:      10:00am -11:00am Thank you, Sarah Reyna When:    Wednesday, December 6th Where:   EB27C2 Time:      10:00am -11:00am Thank you, Sarah Reyna 
thanks for organizing this!  It was a blast.  See you Sunday.  Michelle Deannenoel@aol.com on 12/08/2000 10:02:58 AM 
I am sorry to have left the details for so late, but here they are.  Pregos at 7:30.  Unfortunately, Elizabeth cannot make it, Lisa will be flying in from NYC so who knows when or if she will be there, and Deb has another engagement, but will meet us for drinks before dinner, so be prompt.  The rest of us will have a fabulous time eating and DRINKING and trying not to cause a scene.  See ya'll tonight. 
Sure, you could ask.  I think that Kriste's draft was prepared before my draft, which I sent to Rosen in executable form.  Britt, by copy of this email, I'll ask Twanda to send you the copies from my file here. Thanks for the update. Michelle 
Shanna, we certainly can hire and manage him out if the performance is not there.  Do we not think he'll be a good performer?   Michelle Shanna Funkhouser@ENRON 12/06/2000 09:47 PM 
Michelle, Don't know that this alternative would be too appealing to the candidate, but I can explore it with Mark. What would happen if we hire him as an Enron employee, he has a mid year review that is not stellar, and then by September of next year we decide to terminate for non-performance? Shanna Michelle Cash@ECT 12/05/2000 11:29 PM 
What about payrolling through an agency so that he is on a contract-to-hire basis?  That way, we can say that the intent is to hire, but that we are evaluating the situation before making a regular, full-time offer.  Customers 
Michelle, Mark Tawney has a situation where he wants to hire a Manager level person in the Chicago office on a trial basis as a Marketer of Weather products. This is a trial effort and if it fails, there would be no job for him in Houston or otherwise.  Mark is thinking that a 6-9 month evaluation period would be adequate to determine success.  How would you recommend that we structure an offer that gives us an out if the initiative fails.  We thought about hiring him as a contractor or consultant in order to minimize our commitment, but we're concerned that if our potential customers learn of his employment status, it may appear to our customers that we are not committed to the effort or the market.  Mark is willing to be completely above board with the candidate that this may or may not work. My belief is that we are going to have more of this exact situation in EGM. Kevin McGowan is also looking for a Marketer for Coal.  The people they are targeting have sales backgrounds and would not be re-deployable in other parts of Enron. My goal is to minimize our exposure on the front end! Shanna 
could you please forward to Scott Miller (email below) our short confidentiality, non-solicitation and non-compete agreement?  Thanks a lot. Michelle 
Attached is a marked version of the Assignment Agreement with our initial comments.  In addition to the comments marked, we also have a few other questions. Although we do not object to it being mentioned twice, why is the lease assigned pursuant to this Assignment Agreement when there is also a separate lease assignment agreement? How was the employment of the persons listed on Exhibit A to the Assignment Agreemement effected?  Were they terminated or did they resign?  Is there any documentation regarding this? We may have further comments after review by Enron and our labor attorney. Please call Cle at (713) 221-1314 or me at (713) 221-1131 with your comments. Thanks. Scott L. Miller Bracewell & Patterson, L.L.P. Phone (713) 221-1131 Fax (713) 222-3242 email:  smiller@bracepatt.com - Redline AMPS Assignment Agreement.doc 
Peter, here are preliminary comments from Pat Mackin on the PSA.  Michelle 
Michelle, I reviewed the Project Canary Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement and offer the following observations: In an asset transaction, where the buyer did not want to acquire or assume the employee benefit plans of the seller, I have always recommended to include such plans and liabilities in the statement of excluded assets. Based on the recitals for this transaction, and other provisions of the Agreement (Sections 7 and 10) it appears that the employee benefit plans are not excluded. Generally, when such employee benefit plans are included in an asset transaction, the buyer wants to obtain representations as to the funding, compliance and administration of the plans.  These kinds of representations are not in the Agreement. The bottom line is that the buyer needs to rely on Canadian counsel and actuaries to gives buyer the level of comfort it desires to have with respect to these issues of funding, compliance and administration so that they can be inserted into the financial model for determining the offering price. You may wish to obtain a formal opinion letter from the Canadian counsel and actuary regarding the level of comfort the buyer requires. Pat 
Kelly, my fax is 713-646-3490.  Thanks.  Michelle Kelly Mahmoud <Kelly@ECOGAS.com> on 12/12/2000 08:57:47 AM 
Eden, Here is the data for the Ecogas settlement agreements.  Michelle 
Kelly, my fax is 713-646-3490.  Thanks.  Michelle Kelly Mahmoud <Kelly@ECOGAS.com> on 12/12/2000 08:57:47 AM 
Dan, what is the status of this deal?  I hadn't heard anything for a few days, and I knew we were on a tight time frame.  Thanks.  Michelle 
FYI 
Kathy, Here is Wayne's response to the HR due diligence questions that Michelle proposed.  What are your thoughts?  Let me know what you need, and I will push him for adequate answers.  I will forward you the e-mail of the employee manual.  In addition, I believe Maribel Mata in due diligence has a hard copy of Power System's employee manual; you may call her and see if you can get it (I left her a message letting her know you may be calling her). Thanks, John H. 
Mark, The pay equity issue sounds like the reviews we do every year to ensure that people are being paid equitably.  Given that the company has until November of next year to get in compliance and to report out on the compliance issue, it should be no big deal -- unless there currently are pay inequities.  A list of persons in each job, with salary and gender, could allow us to determine whether an issue even exists. Michelle Mark Greenberg@ENRON 12/07/2000 09:08 PM 
Christopher - Based upon your memo and our due diligence effort to date, is there any indication of (a) any steps Daishowa has taken to put the committee required under the Pay Equity Act or (b) any increase in compensation that would be consistent with the Pay Equity Act and therefore enable Daishowa to dispense with the need for a committee?  Is there any way to currently assess what potential liabilities could be or to view any industry data on this issue that may indicate how extensive liability could be??? The main concern is that we are negotiating with Daishowa to be in a position to undertake, as of closing, all responsibilities associated with all matters disclosed, unless there is a legal noncompliance issue (e.g., failure to maintain proper permits).  Since the requirements of the Pay Equity Act have not been identified to management as a concern, I need to ensure that this is a real issue (mostly from a $'s exposure standpoint) vs. something so remote that it should not even be discussed. Please let me know your thoughts.  Thanks. Mark Senior Counsel, ENA Phone:     713-345-8897 Facsimile: 713-646-3940 E-Mail:      Mark.Greenberg@enron.com 
please calendar for me.  Thanks!!  You also should attend if you are interested.  Michelle 
go ahead and initial it.  I assume that there are no changes.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Karen E Jones 12/12/2000 08:38 PM 
Hi Michelle.  Is it ok for me to put your initials on Kathy Russeth's CSA (for some reason, the version she signed is not the intialled version that I think you sent to Sam recently).  I can fax to you the document, as she has signed it, for a final check.  Please let me know your preference.  I am in the SF office this week - (415)782-7800, or page (800)316-0430.  Thanks.  -- Karen 
Candace, You are right -- there is no need to send a second letter since we didn't base our decision on the background check results.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Candace Womack 12/12/2000 07:07 PM 
Michelle - Just wanted to verify that there is no need to send this candidate a second notice.  It seems a bit pointless, but thought I would double check with you.  Please advise. Thanks. Candace Michelle Cash 11/18/2000 04:24 PM 
Candace, this letter looks good.  Michelle Candace Womack 11/14/2000 11:22 AM 
Michelle - I have drafted up a special letter to send to the candidate with the derogatory results on his background investigation report.  We had decided not to engage him for business reasons unrelated to the background report (his job requisition was actually cancelled), and you suggested that we send him a copy of his report anyway. Could you look over this letter and let me know if it is suitable to send out?  Will we need to also modify the second letter (that contains contact information for the investigation agency) and send it out in a couple of weeks, or will this one letter be sufficient?  Or should I incorporate the contact information into this letter? Thanks for your assistance. Candace x30651 
I don't do EBS, but I have asked Kriste Sullivan to send me the info you requested.  You also may want to check with Shelly Pierce in EBS compensation to see what she knows.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Shanna Funkhouser@ENRON 12/12/2000 06:21 PM 
Michelle, Do you do employment agreements for EBS, if not, who is the attorney I should contact?  Bill is a Trading Manager for EBS and will be transferring to EGM in the near future.  Bill evidently had a draft of an employment agreement that was not executed.  Shankman and Nowlan want to offer him a contract and want to start with the same terms drafted by EBS. Thanks, Shanna 
Roberto, If a person is accessing inappropriate web sites in the course of investigations, it does not violate the policies.  However, it may be useful to set up protocols or logs to confirm when a person is accessing it for investigative purposes to remove all confusion on the matter.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
Jim, As we discussed, I would like to have nominations for the CLE Planning Committee for the 2001 law conference identified before year end so that the committee will be able to meet in early January.  Below is draft language for inclusion in an email from you to the general counsels of the various groups. The chair for the CLE Planning Committee for the 2001 Law Conference is Michelle Cash.  Each business unit law department should have at least one representative on the CLE committee.   The first CLE Planning Committee meeting will take place in early January; therefore, please give Michelle the name of your group's committee member by December 20. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
More info about Bond.  Michelle 
Michelle, This is Scott Williamson's reponses. I talked with him about the number of times he travels out of the US for work and he said for Enron he has and will not travel for work. For Conchango he does. Right now he is in the UK trying to get his visa situation straightened out?? I don't know what that means. Mandy 
1. I need Steve until I'm able to hire someone to fulfill that role.  We are actively recruiting and interviewing candidates for his activities. 2. I simply do not have an answer for your second question. We have not discussed or agreed upon a set number of trips. Scott Amanda Curless@ENRON 12/06/2000 02:55 PM 
Scott, Once again we need some more information about Stephen Bond. How long will he be here? and how many trips in and out of the US will he make? Please let me know as soon as possible so we can bring this to a conclusion. Thanks Scott!! Mandy 
Twanda, would you please check my calendar and book me yes if I am available?  Thanks a lot.  Michelle 
I think we should have someone from the tax group also attend this meeting -- contact Jordan Mintz for the appropriate representative since he and I have discussed this issue already. Thanks.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
Twanda, please calendar.  Thanks a lot!!  Michelle 
Sharon/Kriste, If there are going to be revisions to the leave policy, I suggest that we make major ones, including a segregation of FMLA leave from other types of leave --i.e., two separate policies.  Let's talk about this on Tuesday ----- Majorly important!! Michelle Sharon Butcher@ENRON 01/13/2000 05:38 PM 
Dear Michelle and Kriste:   Please review and let me have your comments. Thanks.  Sharon 
Here are a few edits to the Approved Time Off and Leaves of Absence policy. Benefits has not included a ""second or third opinion by another health care provider paid for by the Company"" as it has significant implications to our LTD plan and has created at least one problem that I am aware of in the past. We will need to think through what the certification document might look like and would look to you for some guidelines.   The concern I have is around privacy and use of information given potential regulation. Cynthia believes that we should run FMLA concurrent with sick time.  I agree and have noted that in the document. Sharon, could you please review the wording to ensure I haven't missed something here from a legal perspective.  I will follow-up with you by phone shortly. Susan, here are the ""long-since promised"" wording changes we propose. Thanks, Elaine 
Privileged & Confidential David, As far as I can tell, Mike McCall is not under a current employment agreement.  I sent you a draft agreement for him on December 2, 1999, and have heard nothing more about the status of that agreement. I do not have any other information about the terms of his employment (salary, options, etc.). Let me know if you would like any other information from me. Michelle David Oxley 01/12/2000 02:42 PM 
Mike McCall What are his current employment terms? If we were to let him go what would be your advice on deal? David 
David, As we discussed, Mark Haedicke and I discussed the possibility of providing Kevin McConville with some sort of indemnity in order to make sure that he remains available and cooperative during the pendency of the NSM case and other litigation matters. We could agree to enter into a Consulting Services Agreement with Kevin.  The terms of that Agreement would include: 1. He agrees to be available and cooperative with Enron and its counsel regarding litigation matters.  He will agree to meet with counsel, prepare for testimony, review documents, testify, and provide other assistance, as needed. 2. Through February 1, 2001, Kevin would not be directly compensated for this cooperation/testimony (because he is to be receiving his salary pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement).  After Feb.1, 2001, he will be paid a rate of $125 per hour for his services in this regard. 3. Enron would agree to indemnify Kevin for his conduct taken in the ordinary course and scope of his employment with Enron, up to the last date of his employment with Enron.  Excluded from this indemnity would be allegations or claims based upon the following: -- any conduct that is outside the course and scope of Kevin's employment, -- any conduct violating policies of Enron or ENA, -- Kevin's intentional acts, -- Kevin's gross negligence, -- Kevin's reckless conduct, -- conduct that is in violation of any law, statute, regulation, or other legal obligation, or -- the commission of an unlawful or illegal act. 4. Kevin would invoice Enron for time spent in performing the services after 2/1/01.  The invoice would be paid within 30 days of receipt.  In addition, all related expenses would be reimbursed throughout the term of  the agreement. Let me know if you have any questions or require additional information.  I am available to participate in your call with him, if you would like me to attend. 
Gene and Susan, Here is the draft award agreement for the plan.  Let me know if you have comments. I will be getting with Brian Bloom this week with our comments to the plan document. Michelle 
Thanks for the draft. Delaware is the proper state. I thought the deferral information was sent to you already.   There is no ""plan"" document per se.  Instead, there is a description of the program.  I will re-send that to you today if you don't already have it. Please contact my assistant, Twanda Sweet, for a time to have a conference call on the other question.  My morning today is wild; tomorrow probably is better. Thanks. Michelle ""Wilson, Jeanne"" <jkwilson@velaw.com> on 03/17/2000 10:42:44 AM 
Have him interview with Dan Rogers, Alan Aronowitz, Barbara Gray, and ask them who else they would like to have talk with him.  Thanks.  Michelle Enron North America Corp. 
Draft of Plan Document and Form Award Agreement 
Tony, the lawyer's name is Gary Herrmanns at Orrick.  His number is 415-773-5451.  Thanks for the message about Trey!  Michelle Tony Jarrett@ENRON 03/20/2000 01:17 PM 
of Plan Document and Form Award Agreement Michelle: Will you please forward me the name and number of the attorney who suggested we try to structure payments under this plan in a manner that would result in capital gains treatment to participants?  Thanks. Tony 
Just when you thought it was safe . . . I have received a question from NEPCO about Project 50.  Apparently, they have temporary employees who work on projects and then leave the company. These are hourly employees who do not work regularly.  Originally, these employees were thought to be included in the scope of Project 50 by corp. Mike Indivero called me and said that these people should not receive the 50 options because they are not ""regular, full-time or regular part-time employees"" as described in the memo from the Office of the Chairman. What are  your thoughts on that?  Should they be included or not? My reading of the email to all employees is that it does not include temporary employees.  Do you know how other temporary employees were treated? Let me know what you think. Thanks, as always. 
Tara, You are right -- those changes were not included.  For Vice President level employees, corporate comp.does not promote guaranteed performance bonuses. The request that he be able to ""get out"" of his employment contract if he is not promoted also is not something that we can do; otherwise, it will undermine the enforceability of our non-competes across the board. I spoke with David Oxley on both of those points, and he concurred that these changes could not be made. Michelle Tara Rozen 04/05/2000 12:23 PM 
Thanks for this, Twanda I have two comments; 1)I cannot find the exception clause which indicates that David Pope can resign if he doesn't make MD as described in previous email. Am I missing this or can we not put this in? 2)Danny McCarty wanted guaranteed bonus for 2000 rather than performance target bonus as per email. Is this possible? Thanks Tara 
fyi 
Thanks.  Nigel has now spoken with David and Nigel has gone to Danny with the result. We shall see how he responds!! Thanks Tara Michelle Cash 10/04/2000 18:00 
Tara, You are right -- those changes were not included.  For Vice President level employees, corporate comp.does not promote guaranteed performance bonuses. The request that he be able to ""get out"" of his employment contract if he is not promoted also is not something that we can do; otherwise, it will undermine the enforceability of our non-competes across the board. I spoke with David Oxley on both of those points, and he concurred that these changes could not be made. Michelle Tara Rozen 04/05/2000 12:23 PM 
Thanks for this, Twanda I have two comments; 1)I cannot find the exception clause which indicates that David Pope can resign if he doesn't make MD as described in previous email. Am I missing this or can we not put this in? 2)Danny McCarty wanted guaranteed bonus for 2000 rather than performance target bonus as per email. Is this possible? Thanks Tara 
FYI re:  FMLA policy 
Sharon/Kriste, If there are going to be revisions to the leave policy, I suggest that we make major ones, including a segregation of FMLA leave from other types of leave --i.e., two separate policies.  Let's talk about this on Tuesday ----- Majorly important!! Michelle Sharon Butcher@ENRON 01/13/2000 05:38 PM 
Dear Michelle and Kriste:   Please review and let me have your comments. Thanks.  Sharon 
Here are a few edits to the Approved Time Off and Leaves of Absence policy. Benefits has not included a ""second or third opinion by another health care provider paid for by the Company"" as it has significant implications to our LTD plan and has created at least one problem that I am aware of in the past. We will need to think through what the certification document might look like and would look to you for some guidelines.   The concern I have is around privacy and use of information given potential regulation. Cynthia believes that we should run FMLA concurrent with sick time.  I agree and have noted that in the document. Sharon, could you please review the wording to ensure I haven't missed something here from a legal perspective.  I will follow-up with you by phone shortly. Susan, here are the ""long-since promised"" wording changes we propose. Thanks, Elaine 
Please keep your file open.  We still are talking with her, and probably will need additional revisions to the document, as well as your advice and counsel.  Thanks.  Michelle ""Bill W. Ogden"" <bogden@ogwb.com> on 04/25/2000 03:34:23 PM Please respond to <bogden@ogwb.com> 
Michelle: I sent you a revised settlement agreement on the Lynda Clemmons matter last week, and I know you were ready to get this one closed out. Is there anything further I need to be doing on it now? Let me know. Best regards, Bill 
Felicia, In general, you are correct that the salary basis test must be met before someone can be classified as exempt.  However, because there are certain exceptions to the salary basis test (for example, licensed attorneys do not have to meet that test), it depends on what the employees are doing as to whether this situation creates a problem under the FLSA. My recommendation would be to obtain information about the jobs performed by these 29 employees so that we can determine whether there is an issue.  If they do not fit within one of the exceptions, we probably should have them affirmatively report time so that hours worked over 40 can be paid at the overtime rate. You would use the hourly rate they are paid to determine the overtime rate.  If they are not working over 40 hours in a week, it will not be an issue. Let me know if you have questions. Michelle Felecia Acevedo@ENRON 04/27/2000 05:40 PM 
Sharon and Michelle, We have 29 employees in the payroll system that are part-time exempt employees and their pay is calculated on an hourly rate.  Unless I understand the FLSA incorrectly we cannot in any way calculate salaries on exempt employees on an hourly basis.  If they are reduced hours we would need to determine how we would value their job based on a salary basis otherwise we are treating them as hourly employees and not exempt employees.   An exempt employee should only be tracking exception time (i.e. sick, vacation, etc -- any off duty time) but not work hours during the day.   An exempt worker according the FLSA can only be paid on a fee basis or salary basis -- not on an hourly basis.  If I am off base let me know, otherwise I would like your help with how we should approach getting this corrected and possibly having this covered in a policy on how to deal with employees performing exempt jobs that are working part-time or reduced schedules. Look forward to hearing back from you. Felecia 
FMLA 
TWanda, please print for me.  Thanks.  Michelle 
FMLA Here is a corrected chart.  Have a great weekend! Mary 
FMLA Please note we have corrected this chart under the section 
FYI.  Michelle 
I will sign off on request forms for EBS. Thanks Mary Ann Mary Joyce@ENRON 05/03/00 01:19 PM 
Effective May 8, the guidelines outlined in our April 14th training session will be officially implemented.  This means that employment agreements for VPs and above are not to be generated unless you have received a completed and approved request form.  Each business unit should call Mary McKendree (713-345-8085)  for the form and we will fax or hand deliver it to them.  The form must  be signed by the appropriate HR personnel for the business unit (names to be provided to Mary McKendree by each business unit) and then returned to Mary McKendree.  The form will be initialed by someone in Executive Compensation (Mary McKendree, Mary Joyce, or Pam Butler) and delivered to you for generating drafts.  Please do not distribute a draft to anyone without a signed and initialed request form. Also, as discussed, requests for signing bonuses, retention bonuses, up-front grants by number of options rather than value, and guaranteed LTI awards are exceptions to the rules that the business units will need to justify before they will be approved.  Please do not make changes to these items or add any provisions to the standard short form without contacting Executive Compensation. These procedures have been implemented at the request of the Office of the Chairman.  Consistent application of compensation standards and attention to the One Enron goal are key to our success. Please pass this memo on to others who are impacted by this implementation. Sheila, would you please ensure that all Compensation Staff receive this? 
T:  Would you please set up a meeting with Shanna?  Thanks. mhc 
Hi Michelle, Could we get together briefly to discuss employment agreements, etc.   Brad has given me a general orientation to the processes, but I would like to hear from you how you and Twanda prefer to receive things, expected turnaround, etc. I am free anytime tomorrow after 9:30 in the am or between 1:30 and 3:30 in the afternoon OR just about any time next week. Thanks, Shanna Michelle Cash@ECT 05/04/2000 10:24 AM 
FYI.  Michelle 
I will sign off on request forms for EBS. Thanks Mary Ann Mary Joyce@ENRON 05/03/00 01:19 PM 
Effective May 8, the guidelines outlined in our April 14th training session will be officially implemented.  This means that employment agreements for VPs and above are not to be generated unless you have received a completed and approved request form.  Each business unit should call Mary McKendree (713-345-8085)  for the form and we will fax or hand deliver it to them.  The form must  be signed by the appropriate HR personnel for the business unit (names to be provided to Mary McKendree by each business unit) and then returned to Mary McKendree.  The form will be initialed by someone in Executive Compensation (Mary McKendree, Mary Joyce, or Pam Butler) and delivered to you for generating drafts.  Please do not distribute a draft to anyone without a signed and initialed request form. Also, as discussed, requests for signing bonuses, retention bonuses, up-front grants by number of options rather than value, and guaranteed LTI awards are exceptions to the rules that the business units will need to justify before they will be approved.  Please do not make changes to these items or add any provisions to the standard short form without contacting Executive Compensation. These procedures have been implemented at the request of the Office of the Chairman.  Consistent application of compensation standards and attention to the One Enron goal are key to our success. Please pass this memo on to others who are impacted by this implementation. Sheila, would you please ensure that all Compensation Staff receive this? 
please preparre a ""no thanks"" letter to this person.  Thanks.  Michelle 
Twanda, would you please print for my review?  Thanks.  MHC 
Attached is a 12-Month Direct Compensation Profile document which we have asked Chris Tull to program (final programs need to be completed by 8/30/00). Michelle:  We'd appreciate it if you will review the document and write the appropriate legal disclaimer that should be placed on the bottom of the document. Chris:  The document includes the revisions we talked about.  Also, the 2nd page of the 1st worksheet includes all the add'l cash comp to include (by codes). Pam:  This is the document Robert shared with you.  Do you foresee any problem with the data to be reflected in the document? 
FYI.  Michelle 
Felicia, In general, you are correct that the salary basis test must be met before someone can be classified as exempt.  However, because there are certain exceptions to the salary basis test (for example, licensed attorneys do not have to meet that test), it depends on what the employees are doing as to whether this situation creates a problem under the FLSA. My recommendation would be to obtain information about the jobs performed by these 29 employees so that we can determine whether there is an issue.  If they do not fit within one of the exceptions, we probably should have them affirmatively report time so that hours worked over 40 can be paid at the overtime rate. You would use the hourly rate they are paid to determine the overtime rate.  If they are not working over 40 hours in a week, it will not be an issue. Let me know if you have questions. Michelle Felecia Acevedo@ENRON 04/27/2000 05:40 PM 
Sharon and Michelle, We have 29 employees in the payroll system that are part-time exempt employees and their pay is calculated on an hourly rate.  Unless I understand the FLSA incorrectly we cannot in any way calculate salaries on exempt employees on an hourly basis.  If they are reduced hours we would need to determine how we would value their job based on a salary basis otherwise we are treating them as hourly employees and not exempt employees.   An exempt employee should only be tracking exception time (i.e. sick, vacation, etc -- any off duty time) but not work hours during the day.   An exempt worker according the FLSA can only be paid on a fee basis or salary basis -- not on an hourly basis.  If I am off base let me know, otherwise I would like your help with how we should approach getting this corrected and possibly having this covered in a policy on how to deal with employees performing exempt jobs that are working part-time or reduced schedules. Look forward to hearing back from you. Felecia 
David, on point 2, that type of arrangement has to be approved by the Enron Executive Committee.  Let me know if you want a copy of the note describing that process, which was sent by Cindy Olson a few weeks ago.    Michelle David Oxley 05/10/2000 07:27 PM 
Spoke with him about his contract on Monday. We agreed following changes and he would sign; 1 - Should read Michael L Brown throughout 2 - He would us to have Mark F send him a note (separately) that says why we will rank him as a VP he can continue to use the MD title externally and maintain any related travel perq's associated with that. 3 - We should change cash sign-on to 12 months pay back. Can you get him final asap. Also Kim/Mel lets draft email for Mark F. David 
We are in the process of promulgating a data protection policy.  It should be out  in the next few weeks.  It addresses all of those privacy, etc. issues. Let me know if you would like a copy of the draft policy.  MIchelle Enron North America Corp. 
We should get it today;  I'll messenger it over when it arrives.  mhc ""Notestine, Kerry"" <KNotestine@littler.com> on 05/11/2000 08:59:54 AM 
I'll look into it for you. Michelle ""Notestine, Kerry"" <KNotestine@littler.com> on 05/10/2000 06:28:34 PM 
Michelle: Enron has not paid us for the work we did for them related to the NJ law issue.  The amount is $  8115.84.  Any thoughts about what we can do to collect that amount? Kerry E Notestine Littler Mendelson, PC 1900 Chevron Tower 1301 McKinney Street Houston, Texas 77010 713.652.4748 713.951.9212 (fax) knotestine@littler.com www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
FYI.  I have sent them a copy of the draft policy.  I think it will address their concerns.  Michelle 
Jane, this issue continues to be 'worked' here at Enron.  In relation to a current initiative which includes a new employee directory, we are working with the business unit leaders (Cindy Olson, Steve Kean, Mark Palmer, Vision and Values Task Force) and Sharon Butcher, Kelly Higgason, and Brian Schaffer.  Michelle Cash and Sharon have been involved in several discussions relating to our global data collection efforts through HR-GIS.  We have a meeting scheduled next week and I will ask Sharon to include the information below in the discussion. In general, I understood Sharon and Kelly to indicated that research has been done for some locations and may have to be continuously updated.  Other Enron locations have not been researched and will have to be prioritized and evaluated for research, i.e., it was recommended that we focus our efforts on locations with the higher employee populations. 
Cindy, FYI regarding the labor/employment lawyer for EBS -- according to Sharon, she was asked to be point person for EBS.  I'll let you know when I talk with Mark, which should be early next week upon his return from London. Have a great weekend!  Is Chelsea giving you a mother's day gift? Michelle 
Dear Kriste:  I agree we need point persons.  I think you might have reversed the groups as Rex Rogers and Kristina Mordaunt asked me to be the point person for EBS.   I have been the point person for Corp. and Azurix.  It is my understanding that you are the point person for EES and Wind Corp.  I don't know the status with respect to GPG, EE&CC, APACHI, CALME, South America, and India.  During the past year, upon request, I have worked on employment agreements for all of these entities.  Thanks.  Sharon Kriste Sullivan 05/11/2000 06:01 PM 
Although we did not discuss it today in our meeting, I believe that Mary's group was looking for a point person for each operating company for the purpose of division of labor of the preparation of the executive employment agreements,  I recommended to Courtney today that  you  be the point person for Corp., Azurix, GPG and EE&CC.  I would like to be the point person for EES, EBS and Wind.  Of course,  as usual, we will continue to cover for each other and  work on what ever agreements come our way in order to get the agreements done.  I am sure that there are other operating companies that we should divide up but the big ones are noted above.  What do you think? 
Please print for me .  Thanks. MHC 
FYI.  Please give me a call. 
- 196052_2.doc 
Linda, great job!!!!  I am happy with that result.  It makes things much easier.  Have a great weekend.  Michelle ""Linda Broocks"" <lbroocks@ogwb.com> 05/12/2000 10:17 AM Please respond to lbroocks 
John, Thanks for including me on the distribution of this -- I received your voice mail and was glad to be in the loop. In general, we try to avoid any type of personality/psych testing because of issues relating to the Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohibits pre-employment medical testing.  It does apply to US citizens working for Enron in foreign locations (i.e. extraterritorially). Before we go forward and do this type of testing, it is useful to ascertain the purpose/goal of the tests.  Why do they want this information?  Is there another, less intrusive, way to obtain that information (e.g., references from prior employers, etc.)? As noted below, there may be Japanese labor/employment law issues that address this type of activity as well.  I suggest that we obtain the information above as well as the opinion requested below and then determine how to proceed. Michelle John Viverito@ENRON 05/11/2000 02:44 PM 
Michelle- Pursuant to my voicemail, I am forwarding the attached e-mail traffic for your consideration.  I am unsure as to the types of testing contemplated, but want to ensure that such activities are permitted under Enron's policy. Your comments on the attached agreement would also be appreciated. Thanks, John 
Hi John Enron will be using PDI in Tokyo for candidate abilities testing prior to employment.  The outcome of the testing is a confidential report that comes to me (as HR) and I then send to the participant(s) in the recruitment decision making process for their confidential consumption.  PDI have agreed to me doing this via email, however are seeking some reassurance as to our use of and maintenance of confidentiality of the final product.  Can you review the attached and come back to me with your thoughts?  I would also appreciate a local (Japan) opinion on the legal issues associated with abilities/psych testing prior to employment (I know you guys shy away from it in the US although it is quite widely accepted ""down under""). Thanks and regards Phil 
Phil, With the e-mail transmission (using .pdf files), we'll need you or someone else in Enron to sign a document similar to the attached letter. Please read it and let me know if you want to make any changes before we fill in all the details. Thanks very much, Douglas - emailrelease.doc 
David, The document you gave me is the form assignment letter that I have prepared for many Bridgeline personnel.  Do we need to do anything to tweak it?  How do you want me to proceed? Thanks. Michelle Enron Capital Management 
Twanda, we need executables.  Michelle 
Michelle - Kim asked that I get this date to you for Larry Gagliardi.  His Form B sign date is 5/2/00.  If you have any questions please feel free to call. Thank you, 
Jeffrey, We think that we will be in Austin from Sunday to Tuesday.  We made plans yesterday to spend Sunday evening with some friends from law school.  At some point, I will have lunch with Maria Morris Stewart (my roommate from Tulane) who lives in Austin.  We still are free on Monday evening, if that works for you.  I think that we will stay at that Hawthorne Suites on MoPac, but we may splurge for the Four Seasons -- no firm plans as of yet!! Of course, Trey has to have his Hyde Park fix at soem point as well. Let me know your plans.  Sooner would be better, because we are trying to finalize things. Michelle Jeff Hoogendam <Jeff@SmartPrice.com> 05/15/2000 03:18 PM 
Trey- Here are the new numbers.  Michelle mentioned that you will be visiting Austin soon.  When?  Let us know so we can plan something. Thanks for the updated info. Thanks, JP Jeff Hoogendam - President & CEO SmartPrice.com, Inc. 
Trey, I want to go . . .  I wonder if that is possible.  Let's talk about it.  M Trey Cash@ENRON 06/05/2000 12:14 PM 
Here is my itenerary for the Napa trip in a few weeks. L, T 
SALES AGT: LD/YI8WV3 EB 4612 ENRON CORP DATE:  JUN 05 2000 SERVICE               DATE  FROM           TO             DEPART  ARRIVE CONTINENTAL AIRLINES  18JUN HOUSTON        SAN F          0220P   0421P CO 1262    B          SUN   G.BUSH INTERCO SAN FRANCISCO TERMINAL C     TERMINAL S SNACK                         NON STOP RESERVATION CONFIRMED         4:01 DURATION AIRCRAFT: BOEING 737-800 SEAT 26A NO SMOKING CONFIRMED CASH III/WARREN CAR                   18JUN NATIONAL               SAN F 22JUN CONFIRMATION: 306614012COUNT TELEPHONE: (650) 616-3000 FAX: 1-650-616-3016 INTERMED CAR AUTOMATIC AIR RATE: USD40.25DY-UNL MI RATE QUOTED BASE RATE: *ZL*USD161.00 BR-4DY PICK-UP: SAN FRANCISCO INTL ARPT, SAN FRANCI DROP-OFF: SAN FRANCISCO INTL ARPT, SAN FRANC CONTINENTAL AIRLINES  22JUN SAN F          HOUSTON        1200N   0559P CO 1502    B          THU   SAN FRANCISCO  G.BUSH INTERCO TERMINAL S     TERMINAL C SNACK                         NON STOP RESERVATION CONFIRMED         3:59 DURATION AIRCRAFT: BOEING 757-200/300 SEAT 34A NO SMOKING CONFIRMED CASH III/WARREN RESERVATION NUMBER(S)  CO/IFYPTP CASH III/WARREN P(IDS0C0011R100027) CO  FREQUENT FLYER COKE906736 INTL TVLRS: CARRY SOS WALLET CARD W/ENRONASSISTANCE INFO CALL SOS: IN U.S 800 523-6586/INTL 215 245-4707 (COLLECT) 
Kerry, this is the second of two messages.   Do you have any thoughts? Michelle Michelle  - Can you review the following examples as well?  USO means unscheduled overtime, UPG means upgrade and the UO1 means Upgrade Overtime. If I should be forwarding these to someone else, please let me know. Thanks, Diane 
See answers below in blue.  Shawn - can you please review as well.  The first example is a tough one. Ken Mueller 04/11/2000 10:31 AM 
Diane, Regarding Example 2 below - The employee's time sheet from ETA in question was Christopher Tracy for Period 1-16 thru 1-31. Thanks, Ken 
Diane, I.  We need help with the following: 1) Employee works night shift  (12 SH2) Same employee is on an upgrade (12 UPG) Same employee works overtime What would the overtime entry look like, and what would be the rate computation for the above employee? Assumptions: A Rate $3949.57 $22.79/hour B Rate $4234.00 $24.43/hour SH2   $1/hr UO1 $350  $   5.40/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) UPG $350  $   2.19/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) W F S S REG   12 12 12 SH2  N N N N UPG  12 12 12 12 USO  12 UO1  12 It is my understanding that we would need to add the $48 ($1/hr) of shift pay to the regular rate of pay ($24.43/hr) to obtain his regular rate of pay ($25.53).  His USO would then be paid at $457.74 (12 x 25.43 x 1.5). The UO1 would be calculated at $64.80 (5.40x12). Second example for this scenario: A Rate $3949.57 $22.79/hour B Rate $4234.00 $24.43/hour SH2   $1/hr UO1 $350  $   5.40/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) UPG $350  $   2.19/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) W F S S REG   12 12 12 SH2  N N N N UPG  12 12 USO  12    2 UO1  12 It is my understanding that we would need to add the $48 ($1/hr) of shift pay to the regular rate of pay ($24.43/hr) to obtain his regular rate of pay ($25.53).  His USO would then be paid at $457.74 (12 x 25.43 x 1.5). The UO1 would be calculated at $64.80 (5.40x12). The USO would be calculated at $76.59 (25.53x1.5x2 hours) 2)  Employee works night shift Same employee works overtime Does the overtime rate take shift differential into account? We've got timesheets that show an employee who worked on a night shift for 12 hours.  This was the employee's off day. The code was 12 SH2 (for night shift) 12 USO (for overtime) Are these time entries correct? Yes.  What would be the rate computation for the above employee? The overtime would need to account for the shift differential.  For the week in question Jan 17-23 he has the following hours: W F S S REG   12 12 12 SH2  N N N N USO  12 This ees salary is as follows: A Rate $3949.57 $22.79/hour B Rate $4234.00 $24.43/hour It is my understanding that we would need to add the $48 ($1/hr) of shift pay to the regular rate of pay ($24.43/hr) to obtain his regular rate of pay ($25.53).  His USO would then be paid at $457.74 (12 x 25.43 x 1.5). Jarrod 
David/Diane, I am with you.  In fact, I sent these questions to outside counsel early this week because I simply have not had time to focus on them given everything else that is going on.  I expect an answer by early next week -- I hope Monday.  Sorry about not letting you know where this was . . . . Michelle David O'Dell@ENRON 06/09/2000 09:46 AM 
Michelle, This is the second of 2 messages..   We have been trying to get a response on this since April, I understand you are very busy, as are we, is there someone you can assign to us to work on these issues?  Some type of response would be appreciated. Thanks - David 
Michelle, This is the second of 2 messages we are looking for your input on, can you advise when can we anticipate a response to Diane's questions?  At this point it is too late to make configuration changes for the 7/1 go-live but we wanted to get your feedback so that if we are not in compliance we can get the corrections on the schedule for post 7/1. Your assistance, as always,  is greatly appreciated. Thanks - David 
Michelle, Here is another question we need resolved as well. Thanks for your assistance, Diane 
Michelle  - Can you review the following examples as well?  USO means unscheduled overtime, UPG means upgrade and the UO1 means Upgrade Overtime. If I should be forwarding these to someone else, please let me know. Thanks, Diane 
See answers below in blue.  Shawn - can you please review as well.  The first example is a tough one. Ken Mueller 04/11/2000 10:31 AM 
Diane, Regarding Example 2 below - The employee's time sheet from ETA in question was Christopher Tracy for Period 1-16 thru 1-31. Thanks, Ken 
Diane, I.  We need help with the following: 1) Employee works night shift  (12 SH2) Same employee is on an upgrade (12 UPG) Same employee works overtime What would the overtime entry look like, and what would be the rate computation for the above employee? Assumptions: A Rate $3949.57 $22.79/hour B Rate $4234.00 $24.43/hour SH2   $1/hr UO1 $350  $   5.40/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) UPG $350  $   2.19/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) W F S S REG   12 12 12 SH2  N N N N UPG  12 12 12 12 USO  12 UO1  12 It is my understanding that we would need to add the $48 ($1/hr) of shift pay to the regular rate of pay ($24.43/hr) to obtain his regular rate of pay ($25.53).  His USO would then be paid at $457.74 (12 x 25.43 x 1.5). The UO1 would be calculated at $64.80 (5.40x12). Second example for this scenario: A Rate $3949.57 $22.79/hour B Rate $4234.00 $24.43/hour SH2   $1/hr UO1 $350  $   5.40/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) UPG $350  $   2.19/hour (I am assuming a 88 hour period) W F S S REG   12 12 12 SH2  N N N N UPG  12 12 USO  12    2 UO1  12 It is my understanding that we would need to add the $48 ($1/hr) of shift pay to the regular rate of pay ($24.43/hr) to obtain his regular rate of pay ($25.53).  His USO would then be paid at $457.74 (12 x 25.43 x 1.5). The UO1 would be calculated at $64.80 (5.40x12). The USO would be calculated at $76.59 (25.53x1.5x2 hours) 2)  Employee works night shift Same employee works overtime Does the overtime rate take shift differential into account? We've got timesheets that show an employee who worked on a night shift for 12 hours.  This was the employee's off day. The code was 12 SH2 (for night shift) 12 USO (for overtime) Are these time entries correct? Yes.  What would be the rate computation for the above employee? The overtime would need to account for the shift differential.  For the week in question Jan 17-23 he has the following hours: W F S S REG   12 12 12 SH2  N N N N USO  12 This ees salary is as follows: A Rate $3949.57 $22.79/hour B Rate $4234.00 $24.43/hour It is my understanding that we would need to add the $48 ($1/hr) of shift pay to the regular rate of pay ($24.43/hr) to obtain his regular rate of pay ($25.53).  His USO would then be paid at $457.74 (12 x 25.43 x 1.5). Jarrod 
Kim, Have you asked Brian to review it as well?  I think his input would be valuable.  Michelle Kimberly Rizzi 06/09/2000 02:37 PM 
Bob/Michelle, This is a memo that has been proposed to be given to the employees who are needs improvement to clarify their status and probabtionary situation.  Let me know if wording changes need to be made. Thanks, Kim 
T:  Please print these for me.  Thanks.  MHC 
Michelle: FYI, per our conversation.  Wanted to set the agreement to do a project and the overall expectations. Need to go back to each person since they were allowed to choose their project -- accepted is an inaccurate word. Regards, Bob 
please save, run spell check, and print for my review.  I think that Robert Jones or Oxley will have to sign it instead of me, since I am not an officer.  Thanks.  MHCC 
t:  please print this and the attachment.  Then, file under ""Japan -- Pre-Employment Testing.""   thanks! 
Hi John The battery of tests includes the following: a. Global Personality Inventory (GPI) description: The GPI is a leadership personality inventory based on data collected and developed by a team of industrial/organizational psychologists from around the world. The GPI measures personality for the work context in general and for professional for the work context and contains 37 distinct scales that can be combined to form dimensions relevant to most job models. Japan norms: Japanese mid-level, front-line manager, and individual contributor norms available. b. Advanced Progressive Matrices (Ravens) description: This nonveral test is the same as that used by Enron Australia through Coyne-Didsbury/PDI, and correlates highly with other tests of problem solving capacity. Global PDI manager/executive norms available. c. Leadership Inventory-plus description: a PDI-structured tool used in the selection of entry and mid-level managers, measuring those basic abilities, traits, values, interests, and motivations that are critical to effective leadership. The LI+ includes both personality and cognitive ability (i.e., numerical, analytical, and verbal reasoning) components. U.S. manager norms available. The intention is to use the testing on local hires (not US nationals) to confirm/expand on information gained in the interviewing process.  Reference checking is a very poor substitute for interviews accompanied by some objective abilities testing against standard norms.  The important thing is that we don't use this information as a be all and end all test of whether we take on a candidate or not. The bottom line is in my professional opinion these tests are an important part of a high quality recruiting effort (and have been demonstrated as such in Australia on several occasions); unless there are significant legal impediments I want to proceed with them. Thanks 
T:  Please print and put in file ""Japan -- PreEmployment Testing""  thanks. mhc 
Hi Phil- The tests appear to be quite comprehensive and are likely to be useful.  Paul Davis, from Baker & McKenzie is currently looking into the Japanese legal issues and stated that he will be able to respond to us in a couple of days. Michelle Cash will be looking at your responses to her queries from the Enron perspective. Best regards, John Phillip -SYDNEY- Taylor@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 05/15/2000 12:52 AM 
Hi John The battery of tests includes the following: a. Global Personality Inventory (GPI) description: The GPI is a leadership personality inventory based on data collected and developed by a team of industrial/organizational psychologists from around the world. The GPI measures personality for the work context in general and for professional for the work context and contains 37 distinct scales that can be combined to form dimensions relevant to most job models. Japan norms: Japanese mid-level, front-line manager, and individual contributor norms available. b. Advanced Progressive Matrices (Ravens) description: This nonveral test is the same as that used by Enron Australia through Coyne-Didsbury/PDI, and correlates highly with other tests of problem solving capacity. Global PDI manager/executive norms available. c. Leadership Inventory-plus description: a PDI-structured tool used in the selection of entry and mid-level managers, measuring those basic abilities, traits, values, interests, and motivations that are critical to effective leadership. The LI+ includes both personality and cognitive ability (i.e., numerical, analytical, and verbal reasoning) components. U.S. manager norms available. The intention is to use the testing on local hires (not US nationals) to confirm/expand on information gained in the interviewing process.  Reference checking is a very poor substitute for interviews accompanied by some objective abilities testing against standard norms.  The important thing is that we don't use this information as a be all and end all test of whether we take on a candidate or not. The bottom line is in my professional opinion these tests are an important part of a high quality recruiting effort (and have been demonstrated as such in Australia on several occasions); unless there are significant legal impediments I want to proceed with them. Thanks 
Kelly,  I am handling Mexico and Canada.  Thanks.  Michelle Kelly Noel Higgason@ENRON 06/07/2000 02:21 PM 
Michelle: I got the answer to the voicemail message I left for you about which lawyer would be the contact for the Enron Europe countries for the new Enron employee stock option plan.  Jon Chapman will be responsible for Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Turkey (and any other Enron Europe countries that are added between now and December).  I assume you are the appropriate lawyer for Mexico.  (If not, please forward this message to the right lawyer, and cc me so that I know who it is!)  Please read the message below for an explanation of the first action item (due June 23rd).  The Mexico spreadsheet is contained in the file marked ""CALME AESOP"" at the  end of Jana's message. Thanks for your help! Kelly 
Jonathon: I was in a meeting this morning concerning the new Enron employee stock option plan that will be implemented at the end of this year, and Melissa Laing (who participated by telephone) informed me that you were the lawyer to support Enron Europe HR on this project.  I recently joined the Enron Corp. legal staff from Enron International legal.  My role in this project is to coordinate the international legal support for the new option plan.  As such, I have contacted lawyers in various international business units to work with local counsel in each of the countries in which Enron has employees who will participate in the plan, to ensure that the plan does not run afoul of any legal restrictions.  Based on current information (which is likely to change between now and December, per Melissa Laing), the relevant countries in the Enron Europe group are Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Turkey.  In the attachment labeled ""asiapac"" at the end of Jana Domke's message, you will find spreadsheets for all five of the Enron Europe companies.  Please review 
If you attended the recent AESOP meeting, you are aware that the approval for establishing an Enron AESOP 2000 Program was granted by the Executive Committee on April 6, 2000.  In most instances, the plan design replicates the prior Plan parameters.  However, on an international basis, there have been numerous regulatory and legislative changes which may impact this program. Attached are individual Country Summary Highlights which consolidate the various accounting/tax/legal/banking/human resource, etc. details and issues into one document.  This consolidated document is based not only on information gleaned from the previous AESOP inplementation, but it also reflects the most recent local tax changes - at least based upon the information we have here. Because successful Plan implementation and rollout is predicated upon solid information, understanding and interpretation, we need your assistance. Please coordinate review of the your appropriate country documents with your local financial, legal, tax and/or other professionals, as required.  We want 
Scott, would you be available in the next couple of weeks to meet with me and some of the HR reps regarding follow-up for employees who leave the company? I would like us to be proactive in those situations.  Let me know your 
Please print this one  only!!!!! ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Attached is the June 16 drafts of the Purchase Agreement.  The June 16 draft closely tracks the June 15th version which was used for internal review. PdV 
Attached is the Purchase and Sale Agreement that we forwarded today to Media General.  Please call George Lee at 713-287-2066 if you have any difficulty opening the attached or call me at 713-287-2004 if you have any comments or questions. Sincerely, Benjamin G. Clark This e-mail, including attachments, contains information that is confidential and it may be protected by the  attorney/client or other priviliges.  This e-mail, including attachments, constitutes non-public information intended to be conveyed only to the designated recipient(s).  If you are not an intentded recipient, please delete this e-mail, including attachments, and notify me by return mail, e-mail or at 713-287-2066.  The unauthorized use, dissemination, distribution or reproduction of this e-mail, including attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.  George T. Lee, gtlee@llgm.com. 
Pat, Given that the new AESOP has been approved by the comp. committee, do you think the language attached below should be revised?  (Or, should I ask -- has it been revised?).  If so, would it be possible for you to revise for inclusion in offer letters, etc.? Thanks a lot! Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
This is what we have -but it now seems dated. Do you have a more current version I could cut and paste into the Japan offer letter. Thanks 
All-Employee Stock Option Program Enron Corp. has previously awarded stock options to full time and part-time regular employees in designated domestic and international locations through the All Employee Stock Option Program (AESOP).  Stock option grants were made under this program to eligible employees hired prior to January 1, 2000.  The grants represented value for the time period of 12/31/94 through 12/31/00 or a pro-rata portion if hired after 12/31/94.  A replacement program for beyond the year 2000 is under consideration and will likely be reviewed at the May, 2000 Board meeting.  If approved, this could result in stock option award grants to eligible employees.  Program awards are subject to and effective upon the approval by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Enron Corp. Board of Directors.  Such stock awards shall be made pursuant to the appropriate Enron Corp. Stock Plan as determined by the Committee. The exercise price for grants of stock options shall be determined according to the provisions of the Stock Plan under which the award is granted.  This program may or may not be offered in certain domestic and international locations based upon management discretion and/or local labor and employment laws. 
Fran, I am not sure that I ever had an executed document on the loans.  By copy of this email, I am asking Twanda to send you what she has that has been signed by Dosier.  I will let you fight the payment battles! Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle, I do not have a copy of the executed document.   Can you provide me with the amount due so that I can issue instructions - is this through A/P or payroll (with taxes withheld). Fran 
Pat, thanks for the revisions to the AESOP language.  I have another one for you.  The attached is a proposed retention program for persons in HR who may be facing outsourcing.  There is a need to incentivize these key personnel to stick around now and, if there is an outsourcing, to help with the transition.  Your comments/thoughts would be appreciated.  Thanks.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
Michelle and Brian, Please review the attached draft memo for distribution to employees to communicate the project completion program.  We would present each employee with an individualized memo showing their award amount and the terms.  The department head would be responsible for filling in the project term.  Let me know what changes need to be made to the memo before we use it.  They would like to communicate to their folks as soon as possible. Also, please look over the revised presentation for the project completion incentive for the final time - no significant changes have been made. Thanks, 
Here, at last, is the email response to the OT questions.  I haven't had a chance to study it, but I am sending it ""hot off the press""  upon receipt by me. Let's discuss if there are any problems. Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 
As we discussed on the telephone last week, the federal Fair Labor Standards Act and Department of Labor regulations prescribe the calculation of the regular rate of pay for overtime pay calculation.  Shift differentials and other adjustments for working particular hours or on particular tasks are included in the regular rate of pay.  If, as set forth in the e-mail forwarded to me from Kerry, an employee is paid a shift differential for night shift work, that differential becomes part of the regular rate of pay for the night shift work.  If the same employee rotates between day and night shifts, she/he will be working at two different rates of pay.  This is acceptable but poses special issues for the calculation of overtime. Federal law permits two methods of calculating overtime for employees who work at two (or more) different regular rates of pay.  Employers may use either a weighted average (29CFR 778.115) or a rate-in-effect (29CFR 778.419) calculation. l. Weighted Average Calculation This calculation involves add multiplying the number of hours worked in a workweek at rate 1 times rate 1 and adding the sum to the number of hours worked at rate 2 times the number of hours worked at rate 2.  The sum is then divided by the total number of hours worked to obtain the weighted average regular rate paid for each hour worked.  Overtime premiums of 1/2 the weighted average regular rate are then paid to bring the overtime rate to 1.5 times the weighted average regular rate.   If, as in California, double time rates apply, the premium would be one times the weighted average regular rate. Example: Employee works four 8-hour day shifts at $10 per hour and two 8-hour night shifts with a shift premium of $! per hour within the same workweek. The weighted average calculation would be: 32 (hours) times 10 (dollars) plus 16 (hours) times 11 (dollars) = 496 (dollars) 496 (dollars) divided by 48 (hours) = $10.33 (the weighted average regular rate) 1/2 of $10.33 = $5.17 (the additional overtime premium due for each overtime hour worked). The weekly pay for this employee would be: $584.00 for straight time $ 41.36 for overtime premium or $625.36 for the week. 2. Rate-in-effect With this method, the overtime pay is calculated at the rate in effect at the time the overtime is worked. In the above example, if the last 8 hours of the week were worked on a day shift, the overtime rate would be 1.5 x $10 or $15 and the employee would be entitled to $120 in overtime pay.  If the last shift was worked on the night shift, the overtime rate would be 1.5 x $11 or $16.50 and the employee would be due $130 in overtime pay. Please note: These are the federal standards.  State law must also be considered, since the employee is entitled to the most favorable provision is there is a conflict.  For example, California does not permit the use of the rate-in-effect method; employees who work at different rates must be paid on the weighted average overtime pay calculation. I hope this is helpful.  Please do not hesitate to call if you questions or need clarification. Mary Lee Thomson Sacramento, CA ---- This email may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the sender by reply email and delete all copies of this message. To reply to our email administrator directly, send an email to postmaster@littler.com Littler Mendelson, P.C. http://www.littler.com 
Add Tweed to the persons to interview Carlos Sole.  Thanks.  MHC 
Tara, It is ok for Mark to sign this in lieu of David.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Tara Rozen 06/23/2000 05:25 AM 
Michelle Again, not sure about these new procedures! The signing authority at the back of Mark's agreement says David Oxley. We have always had a member of Office of the Chair in London sign these, ie Frevert, Sherriff and I was hoping Mark Frevert's signature would do in this case as well. Please confirm, thanks Tara 
Kriste, which business unit would have handled this?  I would need to confirm with them on it.  I have no problem with the dollar amount. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. Kriste Sullivan@ENRON 06/23/2000 02:42 PM 
Please note the counter settlement offer set forth in the email below by our local counsel in the Gignilliat Charge of Discrimination matter. I recommend that we settle the matter for $7,500 or a little less if we can get there. I think it is your Company's money so I will defer to you on this one. Please advise. Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. Legal EB 4861 Ext. 37557 
Hi Kriste, As we discussed, I offered Gignilliat a $5,000 nuisance value settlement. Gignilliant's counsel, after consulting with his client, said he would take $7,500 to settle the case.  While I think Enron has a very strong defense to the disability claim, I am less certain about the aiding and abetting claim. As we discussed, the Mass. Commission Against Discrimination allowed Gignilliat to amend his charge to add this claim.  Gignilliat may be able to create enough of a fact contest about what the plant manager (Dennis Sherrin) told ANP  about his disability to at least get past the probable cause stage.  While I still think that in the end, Enron has a very good chance of prevailing on the aiding and abetting claim, $7,500 is a good, final resolution to avoid further litigation.  Let me know what you think. Thanks, Suzanne M. Suppa Bingham Dana LLP 150 Federal Street Boston, MA 02110 (617) 951-8976 
Scott, here is new language for the inclusion in the Japan agreement.   It still is long, but it is more current.  Let me know if you need any thing else at this time.  Michelle ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- Michelle Cash Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, EB 3823 Houston, Texas  77002 (713) 853-6401 michelle.cash@enron.com This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges. 