Here is our forecast 
Traveling to have a business meeting takes the fun out of the trip.  Especially if you have to prepare a presentation.  I would suggest holding the business plan meetings here then take a trip without any formal business meetings.  I would even try and get some honest opinions on whether a trip is even desired or necessary. As far as the business meetings, I think it would be more productive to try and stimulate discussions across the different groups about what is working and what is not.  Too often the presenter speaks and the others are quiet just waiting for their turn.   The meetings might be better if held in a round table discussion format. My suggestion for where to go is Austin.  Play golf and rent a ski boat and jet ski's.  Flying somewhere takes too much time. 
Randy, Can you send me a schedule of the salary and level of everyone in the scheduling group.  Plus your thoughts on any changes that need to be made. (Patti S for example) 
Greg, How about either next Tuesday or Thursday? 
Please cc the following distribution list with updates: Phillip Allen (pallen@enron.com) Mike Grigsby (mike.grigsby@enron.com) Keith Holst (kholst@enron.com) Monique Sanchez Frank Ermis John Lavorato Thank you for your help Phillip Allen 
1. login:  pallen pw: ke9davis I don't think these are required by the ISP 2.  static IP address IP: 64.216.90.105 Sub: 255.255.255.248 gate: 64.216.90.110 DNS: 151.164.1.8 3.  Company: 0413 
Phillip, > As discussed  during our phone conversation, In a Parallon 75 microturbine > power generation deal for a national accounts customer, I am developing a > proposal to sell power to customer at fixed or collar/floor price. To do > so I need a corresponding term gas price for same. Microturbine is an > onsite generation product developed by Honeywell to generate electricity > on customer site (degen). using natural gas. In doing so,  I need your > best fixed price forward gas price deal for 1, 3, 5, 7 and 10 years for > annual/seasonal supply to microturbines to generate fixed kWh for > customer. We have the opportunity to sell customer kWh 's using > microturbine or sell them turbines themselves. kWh deal must have limited/ > no risk forward gas price to make deal work. Therein comes Sempra energy > gas trading, truly you. > > We are proposing installing 180 - 240 units across a large number of > stores (60-100) in San Diego. > Store number varies because of installation hurdles face at small percent. > > For 6-8 hours a day  Microturbine run time: > Gas requirement for 180 microturbines 227 - 302 MMcf per year > Gas requirement for 240 microturbines 302 - 403 MMcf per year > > Gas will likely be consumed from May through September, during peak > electric period. > Gas price required: Burnertip price behind (LDC) San Diego Gas & Electric > Need detail breakout of commodity and transport cost (firm or > interruptible). > > Should you have additional questions, give me a call. > Let me assure you, this is real deal!! > > Buck Buckner, P.E., MBA > Manager, Business Development and Planning > Big Box Retail Sales > Honeywell Power Systems, Inc. > 8725 Pan American Frwy > Albuquerque, NM 87113 > 505-798-6424 > 505-798-6050x > 505-220-4129 > 888/501-3145 > 
Mr. Buckner, For delivered gas behind San Diego, Enron Energy Services is the appropriate Enron entity.  I have forwarded your request to Zarin Imam at EES.  Her phone number is 713-853-7107. 
Lucy, Here are the rentrolls: Open them and save in the rentroll folder.  Follow these steps so you don't misplace these files. 1.  Click on Save As 2.  Click on the drop down triangle under Save in: 3.  Click on the  (C): drive 4.  Click on the appropriate folder 5.  Click on Save: 
Phillip, Below is the issues & to do list as we go forward with documenting the requirements for consolidated physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. What we need to focus on is the first bullet in Allan's list; the need for a single set of requirements. Although the meeting with Keith, on Wednesday,  was informative the solution of creating a infinitely dynamic consolidated position screen, will be extremely difficult and time consuming.  Throughout the meeting on Wednesday, Keith alluded to the inability to get consensus amongst the traders on the presentation of the consolidated position, so the solution was to make it so that a trader can arrange the position screen to their liking (much like Excel). What needs to happen on Monday from 3 - 5 is a effort to design a desired layout for the consolidated position screen, this is critical. This does not exclude building a capability to create a more flexible position presentation for the future, but in order to create a plan that can be measured we need firm requirements. Also, to reiterate that the goals of this project is a project plan on consolidate physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. The other issues that have been raised will be capture as projects on to themselves, and will need to be prioritised as efforts outside of this project. I have been involved in most of the meetings and the discussions have been good. I believe there has been good communication between the teams, but now we need to have focus on the objectives we set out to solve. Richard 
From our initial set of meetings with the traders regarding consolidated positions, I think we still have the following issues: We don't have a single point of contact from the trading group.  We've had three meetings which brought out very different issues from different traders.  We really need a single point of contact to help drive the trader requirements and help come to a consensus regarding the requirements. We're getting hit with a lot of different requests, many of which appear to be outside the scope of position consolidation. Things left to do: I think it may be useful to try to formulate a high level project goal to make it as clear as possible what we're trying to accomplish with this project.  It'll help determine which requests fall under the project scope. Go through the list of requests to determine which are in scope for this project and which fall out of scope. For those in scope, work to define relative importance (priority) of each and work with traders to define the exact requirements of each. Define the desired lay out of the position manager screen: main view and all drill downs. Use the above to formulate a project plan. Things requested thus far (no particular order): Inclusion of Sitara physical deals into the TDS position manager and deal ticker. Customized rows and columns in the position manager (ad hoc rows/columns that add up existing position manager rows/columns). New drill down in the position manager to break out positions by: physical, transport, swaps, options, ... Addition of a curve tab to the position manager to show the real-time values of all curves on which the desk has a position. Ability to split the current position grid to allow daily positions to be shown directly above monthly positions.  Each grouped column in the top grid would be tied to a grouped column in the bottom grid. Ability to properly show curve shift for float-for-float deals; determine the appropriate positions to show for each: Gas Daily for monthly index, Physical gas for Nymex, Physical gas for Inside Ferc, Physical gas for Mid market. Ability for TDS to pull valuation results based on a TDS flag instead of using official valuations. Position and P&L aggregation across all gas desks. Ability to include the Gas Price book into TDS: Inclusion of spread options in our systems.  Ability to handle volatility skew and correlations. Ability to revalue all options incrementally throughout the trading day. Approximate delta changes between valuations using instantaneous gamma or a gamma grid. Valuation of Gas Daily options. A new position screen for options (months x strike x delta).  TBD. Inclusion of positions for exotic options currently managed in spreadsheets. Ability to isolate the position change due to changed deals in the position manager. Ability to view change deal P&L in the TDS deal ticker.  Show new deal terms, prior deal terms, and net P&L affect of the change. Eliminate change deals with no economic impact from the TDS deal ticker. Position drill down in the position manager to isolate the impact of individual deals on the position total in a grid cell. Benchmark positions in TDS. Deployment of TDS in Canada. Currency and volume uom conversions. Implicit and explicit position break out issues. -- Allan. PS: Colleen is setting up a meeting tomorrow to discuss the direction for transport.  Hopefully we'll know much better where that part stands at that point. 
Phillip, Below is the issues & to do list as we go forward with documenting the requirements for consolidated physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. What we need to focus on is the first bullet in Allan's list; the need for a single set of requirements. Although the meeting with Keith, on Wednesday,  was informative the solution of creating a infinitely dynamic consolidated position screen, will be extremely difficult and time consuming.  Throughout the meeting on Wednesday, Keith alluded to the inability to get consensus amongst the traders on the presentation of the consolidated position, so the solution was to make it so that a trader can arrange the position screen to their liking (much like Excel). What needs to happen on Monday from 3 - 5 is a effort to design a desired layout for the consolidated position screen, this is critical. This does not exclude building a capability to create a more flexible position presentation for the future, but in order to create a plan that can be measured we need firm requirements. Also, to reiterate that the goals of this project is a project plan on consolidate physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. The other issues that have been raised will be capture as projects on to themselves, and will need to be prioritised as efforts outside of this project. I have been involved in most of the meetings and the discussions have been good. I believe there has been good communication between the teams, but now we need to have focus on the objectives we set out to solve. Richard 
From our initial set of meetings with the traders regarding consolidated positions, I think we still have the following issues: We don't have a single point of contact from the trading group.  We've had three meetings which brought out very different issues from different traders.  We really need a single point of contact to help drive the trader requirements and help come to a consensus regarding the requirements. We're getting hit with a lot of different requests, many of which appear to be outside the scope of position consolidation. Things left to do: I think it may be useful to try to formulate a high level project goal to make it as clear as possible what we're trying to accomplish with this project.  It'll help determine which requests fall under the project scope. Go through the list of requests to determine which are in scope for this project and which fall out of scope. For those in scope, work to define relative importance (priority) of each and work with traders to define the exact requirements of each. Define the desired lay out of the position manager screen: main view and all drill downs. Use the above to formulate a project plan. Things requested thus far (no particular order): Inclusion of Sitara physical deals into the TDS position manager and deal ticker. Customized rows and columns in the position manager (ad hoc rows/columns that add up existing position manager rows/columns). New drill down in the position manager to break out positions by: physical, transport, swaps, options, ... Addition of a curve tab to the position manager to show the real-time values of all curves on which the desk has a position. Ability to split the current position grid to allow daily positions to be shown directly above monthly positions.  Each grouped column in the top grid would be tied to a grouped column in the bottom grid. Ability to properly show curve shift for float-for-float deals; determine the appropriate positions to show for each: Gas Daily for monthly index, Physical gas for Nymex, Physical gas for Inside Ferc, Physical gas for Mid market. Ability for TDS to pull valuation results based on a TDS flag instead of using official valuations. Position and P&L aggregation across all gas desks. Ability to include the Gas Price book into TDS: Inclusion of spread options in our systems.  Ability to handle volatility skew and correlations. Ability to revalue all options incrementally throughout the trading day. Approximate delta changes between valuations using instantaneous gamma or a gamma grid. Valuation of Gas Daily options. A new position screen for options (months x strike x delta).  TBD. Inclusion of positions for exotic options currently managed in spreadsheets. Ability to isolate the position change due to changed deals in the position manager. Ability to view change deal P&L in the TDS deal ticker.  Show new deal terms, prior deal terms, and net P&L affect of the change. Eliminate change deals with no economic impact from the TDS deal ticker. Position drill down in the position manager to isolate the impact of individual deals on the position total in a grid cell. Benchmark positions in TDS. Deployment of TDS in Canada. Currency and volume uom conversions. Implicit and explicit position break out issues. -- Allan. PS: Colleen is setting up a meeting tomorrow to discuss the direction for transport.  Hopefully we'll know much better where that part stands at that point. 
Dave, Here are the names of the west desk members by category.  The origination side is very sparse. Phillip 
Paula, 35 million is fine 
Tim, mike grigsby is having problems with accessing the west power site.  Can you please make sure he has an active password. Thank you, 
Westgate Enclosed are demographics on the Westgate site from Investor's Alliance. Investor's Alliance says that these demographics are similar to the package on San Marcos that you received earlier. If there are any other questions or information requirements, let me know. Then, let me know your interest level in the Westgate project? San Marcos The property across the street from the Sagewood units in San Marcos is for sale and approved for 134 units.  The land is selling for $2.50 per square foot as it is one of only two remaining approved multifamily parcels in West San Marcos, which now has a moratorium on development. Several new studies we have looked at show that the rents for our duplexes and for these new units are going to be significantly higher, roughly $1.25 per square foot if leased for the entire unit on a 12-month lease and $1.30-$1.40 psf if leased on a 12-month term, but by individual room.  This property will have the best location for student housing of all new projects, just as the duplexes do now. If this project is of serious interest to you, please let me know as there is a very, very short window of opportunity.  The equity requirement is not yet known, but it would be likely to be $300,000 to secure the land.  I will know more on this question later today. Sincerely, George W. Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
There will be a meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 10th at 4:00pm in EB3270 regarding Storage Strategies in the West.  Please mark your calendars. Thank you! Regards, Nancy Hall ENA Denver office 303-575-6490 
Brenda, Please use the second check as the October payment.  If you have already tossed it, let me know so I can mail you another. 
Brenda, Please use the second check as my October payment.  I have my copy of the original deal.  Do you want me to fax this to you? 
Liane, As we discussed yesterday, I am concerned there has been an attempt to manipulate the  El Paso San Juan monthly index.  A single buyer entered the marketplace on both September 26 and 27 and paid above market prices ($4.70-$4.80) for San Juan gas with the intent to distort the index.  At the time of these trades, offers for physical gas at significantly (10 to 15 cents) lower prices were bypassed in order to establish higher trades to report into the index calculation.  Additionally, these trades are out of line with the associated financial swaps for San Juan. We have compiled a list of financial and physical trades executed from September 25 to September 27.  These are the complete list of trades from Enron Online (EOL), Enron's direct phone conversations, and three brokerage firms (Amerex, APB, and Prebon).  Please see the attached spreadsheet for a trade by trade list and a summary.  We have also included a summary of gas daily prices to illustrate the value of San Juan based on several spread relationships.  The two key points from this data are as follows: 1.  The high physical prices on the 26th & 27th (4.75,4,80) are much greater than the high financial trades (4.6375,4.665) on those days. 2.  The spread relationship between San Juan and other points (Socal & Northwest)  is  consistent between the end of September and October gas daily.  It doesn't make sense to have monthly indeces that are dramatically different. I understand you review the trades submitted for outliers.  Hopefully, the trades submitted will reveal counterparty names and you will be able to determine that there was only one buyer in the 4.70's and these trades are outliers.  I wanted to give you some additional points of reference to aid in establishing a reasonable index.  It is Enron's belief that the trades at $4.70 and higher  were above market trades that should be excluded from the calculation of index. It is our desire to have reliable and accurate indeces against which to conduct our physical and financial business.  Please contact me anytime I can assist you towards this goal. Sincerely, Phillip Allen 
STRUCTURE: Typically the structure is a limited partnership with a corporate (or LLC) general partner.  The General Partner owns 1% of the project and carries the liability of construction. LAND OWNERSHIP & LOANS The property would be purchased in the name of the limited partnership and any land loans, land improvements loans and construction loans would be in the name of the limited partnership.  Each of the individual investors and all of the principals in Creekside would also personally guarantee the loans.  If the investor(s) do not sign on the loans, this generally means that a larger amount of cash is required and the investor's share of profits is reduced. All loans for residential construction, that are intended for re-sale, are full recourse loans.  If we are pursuing multifamily rental developments, the construction loans are still full recourse but the mortgage can often be non-recourse. USE OF INITIAL INVESTMENT The initial investment is used for land deposit, engineering & architectural design, soils tests, surveys, filing fees, legal fees for organization and condominium association formation,  and appraisals.  Unlike many real estate investment programs, none of the funds are used for fees to Creekside Builders, LLC.  These professional expenses will be incurred over the estimated 6 month design and approval period. EARLY LAND COSTS The $4,000 per month costs listed in the cash flow as part of land cost represent the extension fees due to the seller for up to 4 months of extensions on closing.  As an alternative, we can close into a land loan at probably 70% of appraised value.  With a land value equal to the purchase price of $680,000 this would mean a land loan of $476,000 with estimated monthly interest payments of $3,966, given a 10% annual interest rate, plus approximately 1.25% of the loan amount for closing costs and loan fees. EQUITY AT IMPROVEMENT LOAN Once the site plan is approved by the City of Austin, the City will require the development entity to post funds for fiscal improvements, referred to as the ""fiscals"".  This cost represents a bond for the completion of improvements that COA considers vital and these funds are released once the improvements have been completed and accepted by COA.  This release will be for 90% of the cost with the remaining 10% released one year after completion.  Releases can be granted once every 90 days and you should expect that the release would occur 6 months after the start of lot improvement construction.  These fiscals are usually posted in cash or an irrevocable letter of credit.  As such, they have to be counted as a development cost, even though they are not spent.  Because they are not spent no interest is charged on these funds. The lot improvement loan is typically 75% of the appraised value of a finished lot, which I suspect will be at least $20,000 and potentially as high as $25,000.  This would produce a loan amount of  $15,000 on $20,000 per lot.  With estimated per lot improvement costs of $9,000, 'fiscals' at $2,000 and the land cost at $8,000 , total improved lot cost is $19,000 which means $0 to $4,000 per lot in total equity.  The investment prior to obtaining the improvement loan would count towards any equity requirement provided it was for direct costs.  Thus, the additional equity for the improvement loan would be $0-$184,000.   Even if the maximum loan would cover all costs, it is unlikely the bank would allow reimbursement of funds spent. The higher estimates of equity investments are shown in the preliminary proforma to be on the safe side.  The engineer is preparing a tentative site layout with an initial evaluation of the phasing, which can significantly reduce the cash equity requirement. Phasing works as follows.  If the first phase was say 40 units, the total lot improvement cost might average $31,000 per lot.   Of this, probably $13,000 would be for improvements and $19,000 for the land cost.  The improvements are higher to cover large one time up front costs for design costs, the entry road, water treatment costs, perimeter fencing and landscaping, and so on, as well as for 100% of the land.  The land loan for undeveloped lots would be 70% of the appraised raw lot value, which I would estimate as $10,000 per lot for a loan value of $7,000 per lot.  Then the loan value for each improved lot would be $15,000 per lot.  This would give you a total loan of $992,000, total cost of $1,232,645 for equity required of $241,000.  This was not presented in the initial analysis as the phasing is depended on a more careful assessment by the Civil Engineer as the separate phases must each be able to stand on its own from a utility standpoint. CONSTRUCTION LOANS There are three types of  construction loans.  First, is a speculative (spec) loan that is taken out prior to any pre-sales activity.  Second,  is a construction loan for a pre-sold unit, but the loan remains in the builder/developers name.  Third, is a pre-sold unit with the construction loan in the name of the buyer.  We expect to have up to 8 spec loans to start the project and expect all other loans to be pre-sold units with loans in the name of the builder/developer.  We do not expect to have any construction loans in the name of the buyers, as such loans are too difficult to manage and please new buyers unfamiliar with the process. Spec loans will be for 70% to 75% of value and construction loans for pre-sold units, if the construction loan is from the mortgage lender,  will be from 80% to 95% of value. DISBURSEMENTS Disbursements will be handled by the General Partner to cover current and near term third party costs, then to necessary reserves, then to priority payments and then to the partners per the agreement.  The General Partner will contract with Creekside Builders, LLC to construct the units and the fee to CB will include a construction management and overhead fee equal to 15% of the direct hard cost excluding land, financing and sales costs. These fees are the only monies to Creekside, Larry Lewter or myself prior to calculation of profit, except for a) direct reimbursement for partnership expenses and b) direct payment to CB for any subcontractor costs that it has to perform.  For example, if CB cannot find a good trim carpenter sub, or cannot find enough trim carpenters, etc., and it decides to undertake this function, it will charge the partnership the same fee it was able to obtain from third parties and will disclose those cases to the partnership. Finally, CB will receive a fee for the use of any of its equipment if it is used in lieu of leasing equipment from others.  At present CB does not own any significant equipment, but it is considering the purchase of a sky track to facilitate and speed up framing, cornice, roofing and drywall spreading. REPORTING We are more than willing to provide reports to track expenses vs. plan. What did you have in mind?  I would like to use some form of internet based reporting. BOOKKEEPING I am not sure what you are referring to by the question, ""Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses?""  Please expand. INVESTOR INPUT We are glad to have the investor's input on design and materials.  As always the question will be who has final say if there is disagreement, but in my experience I have always been able to reach consensus. As you, and I presume Keith, want to be involved to learn as much as possible we would make every effort to be accommodating. CREEKSIDE PROCEEDURES CB procedures for dealing with subs, vendors and professionals is not as formal as your question indicates.  In the EXTREMELY tight labor market obtaining 3 bids for each labor trade is not feasible.  For the professional subs we use those with whom we have developed a previous rapport.  Finally, for vendors they are constantly shopped. PRE-SELECTED PROFESSIONALS, SUBS AND VENDORS Yes there are many different subs that have been identified and I can provide these if you are interested. I know I have not answered everything, but this is a starting point.  Call when you have reviewed and we can discuss further. Sincerely, George Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
STRUCTURE: Typically the structure is a limited partnership with a corporate (or LLC) general partner.  The General Partner owns 1% of the project and carries the liability of construction. LAND OWNERSHIP & LOANS The property would be purchased in the name of the limited partnership and any land loans, land improvements loans and construction loans would be in the name of the limited partnership.  Each of the individual investors and all of the principals in Creekside would also personally guarantee the loans.  If the investor(s) do not sign on the loans, this generally means that a larger amount of cash is required and the investor's share of profits is reduced. All loans for residential construction, that are intended for re-sale, are full recourse loans.  If we are pursuing multifamily rental developments, the construction loans are still full recourse but the mortgage can often be non-recourse. USE OF INITIAL INVESTMENT The initial investment is used for land deposit, engineering & architectural design, soils tests, surveys, filing fees, legal fees for organization and condominium association formation,  and appraisals.  Unlike many real estate investment programs, none of the funds are used for fees to Creekside Builders, LLC.  These professional expenses will be incurred over the estimated 6 month design and approval period. EARLY LAND COSTS The $4,000 per month costs listed in the cash flow as part of land cost represent the extension fees due to the seller for up to 4 months of extensions on closing.  As an alternative, we can close into a land loan at probably 70% of appraised value.  With a land value equal to the purchase price of $680,000 this would mean a land loan of $476,000 with estimated monthly interest payments of $3,966, given a 10% annual interest rate, plus approximately 1.25% of the loan amount for closing costs and loan fees. EQUITY AT IMPROVEMENT LOAN Once the site plan is approved by the City of Austin, the City will require the development entity to post funds for fiscal improvements, referred to as the ""fiscals"".  This cost represents a bond for the completion of improvements that COA considers vital and these funds are released once the improvements have been completed and accepted by COA.  This release will be for 90% of the cost with the remaining 10% released one year after completion.  Releases can be granted once every 90 days and you should expect that the release would occur 6 months after the start of lot improvement construction.  These fiscals are usually posted in cash or an irrevocable letter of credit.  As such, they have to be counted as a development cost, even though they are not spent.  Because they are not spent no interest is charged on these funds. The lot improvement loan is typically 75% of the appraised value of a finished lot, which I suspect will be at least $20,000 and potentially as high as $25,000.  This would produce a loan amount of  $15,000 on $20,000 per lot.  With estimated per lot improvement costs of $9,000, 'fiscals' at $2,000 and the land cost at $8,000 , total improved lot cost is $19,000 which means $0 to $4,000 per lot in total equity.  The investment prior to obtaining the improvement loan would count towards any equity requirement provided it was for direct costs.  Thus, the additional equity for the improvement loan would be $0-$184,000.   Even if the maximum loan would cover all costs, it is unlikely the bank would allow reimbursement of funds spent. The higher estimates of equity investments are shown in the preliminary proforma to be on the safe side.  The engineer is preparing a tentative site layout with an initial evaluation of the phasing, which can significantly reduce the cash equity requirement. Phasing works as follows.  If the first phase was say 40 units, the total lot improvement cost might average $31,000 per lot.   Of this, probably $13,000 would be for improvements and $19,000 for the land cost.  The improvements are higher to cover large one time up front costs for design costs, the entry road, water treatment costs, perimeter fencing and landscaping, and so on, as well as for 100% of the land.  The land loan for undeveloped lots would be 70% of the appraised raw lot value, which I would estimate as $10,000 per lot for a loan value of $7,000 per lot.  Then the loan value for each improved lot would be $15,000 per lot.  This would give you a total loan of $992,000, total cost of $1,232,645 for equity required of $241,000.  This was not presented in the initial analysis as the phasing is depended on a more careful assessment by the Civil Engineer as the separate phases must each be able to stand on its own from a utility standpoint. CONSTRUCTION LOANS There are three types of  construction loans.  First, is a speculative (spec) loan that is taken out prior to any pre-sales activity.  Second,  is a construction loan for a pre-sold unit, but the loan remains in the builder/developers name.  Third, is a pre-sold unit with the construction loan in the name of the buyer.  We expect to have up to 8 spec loans to start the project and expect all other loans to be pre-sold units with loans in the name of the builder/developer.  We do not expect to have any construction loans in the name of the buyers, as such loans are too difficult to manage and please new buyers unfamiliar with the process. Spec loans will be for 70% to 75% of value and construction loans for pre-sold units, if the construction loan is from the mortgage lender,  will be from 80% to 95% of value. DISBURSEMENTS Disbursements will be handled by the General Partner to cover current and near term third party costs, then to necessary reserves, then to priority payments and then to the partners per the agreement.  The General Partner will contract with Creekside Builders, LLC to construct the units and the fee to CB will include a construction management and overhead fee equal to 15% of the direct hard cost excluding land, financing and sales costs. These fees are the only monies to Creekside, Larry Lewter or myself prior to calculation of profit, except for a) direct reimbursement for partnership expenses and b) direct payment to CB for any subcontractor costs that it has to perform.  For example, if CB cannot find a good trim carpenter sub, or cannot find enough trim carpenters, etc., and it decides to undertake this function, it will charge the partnership the same fee it was able to obtain from third parties and will disclose those cases to the partnership. Finally, CB will receive a fee for the use of any of its equipment if it is used in lieu of leasing equipment from others.  At present CB does not own any significant equipment, but it is considering the purchase of a sky track to facilitate and speed up framing, cornice, roofing and drywall spreading. REPORTING We are more than willing to provide reports to track expenses vs. plan. What did you have in mind?  I would like to use some form of internet based reporting. BOOKKEEPING I am not sure what you are referring to by the question, ""Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses?""  Please expand. INVESTOR INPUT We are glad to have the investor's input on design and materials.  As always the question will be who has final say if there is disagreement, but in my experience I have always been able to reach consensus. As you, and I presume Keith, want to be involved to learn as much as possible we would make every effort to be accommodating. CREEKSIDE PROCEEDURES CB procedures for dealing with subs, vendors and professionals is not as formal as your question indicates.  In the EXTREMELY tight labor market obtaining 3 bids for each labor trade is not feasible.  For the professional subs we use those with whom we have developed a previous rapport.  Finally, for vendors they are constantly shopped. PRE-SELECTED PROFESSIONALS, SUBS AND VENDORS Yes there are many different subs that have been identified and I can provide these if you are interested. I know I have not answered everything, but this is a starting point.  Call when you have reviewed and we can discuss further. Sincerely, George Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
Reagan, Just wanted to give you an update.  I have changed the unit mix to include some 1 bedrooms and reduced the number of buildings to 12.  Kipp Flores is working on the construction drawings.  At the same time I am pursuing FHA financing.  Once the construction drawings are complete I will send them to you for a revised bid.  Your original bid was competitive and I am still attracted to your firm because of your strong local presence and contacts. 
Jeff, ? Is the closing today?? After reviewing the  agreement?I find it isn't binding as far as I can determine.? It is  too vague and it doesn't sound like anything an attorney or title company  would?draft for a real estate closing--but, of course, I could be  wrong.? ? If this?closing is going to take place without  this agreement then there is no point in me  following up on this?document's validity.? ? I will just need to go back to my closing documents  and see what's there and find out where I am with that and deal with this as  best I can. ? I guess I was expecting something that would be an  exhibit to a recordable document or something a little more exact, or  rather?sort of a contract.? This isn't either.? I tried to get a  real estate atty on the phone last night but he was out of pocket.? I  talked to a crim. atty friend and he said this is out of his area but doesn't  sound binding to him.? ? I will go back to mine and Phillip Allen's  transaction?and take a look at that but as vague and general as this is I  doubt that my signature? is even needed to complete this transaction.?  I am in after 12 noon if there is any need to contact me regarding the  closing. ? I really do not want to hold up anything or  generate more work for myself and I don't want to insult or annoy anyone but  this paper really doesn't seem to be something required for a closing.? In  the event you do need my signature on something like this I would rather have  time to have it reviewed before I accept it. ? Brenda ? ? 
Chris, What is the latest with PG&E?  We have been having good discussions regarding EOL. Call me when you can. X37041 
Greg, Happy B-day. Email me your phone # and I will call you. 
Kathy, Regarding the guest password for gas daily, can you please relay the information to Mike Grigsby at 37031 so he can pass it along to the user at gas daily today.  I will be out of the office on Friday. thank you 
John, Denver's short rockies position  beyond 2002 is created by their Trailblazer transport.  They are unhedged 15,000/d in 2003 and 25,000/d in 2004 and 2005. They are scrubbing all their books and booking the Hubert deal on Wednesday and Thursday. 
Jim, Is there going to be a conference call or some type of weekly meeting about all the regulatory issues facing California this week?  Can you make sure the gas desk is included. 
George, Below is a list of questions that Keith and I had regarding the Westgate project: Ownership Structure What will be the ownership structure? Limited partnership? General partner? What are all the legal entities that will be involved and in what capacity(regarding ownership and liabilities)? Who owns the land? improvements? Who holds the various loans? Is the land collateral? Investment What happens to initial investment? Is it used to purchase land for cash?Secure future loans? Why is the land cost spread out on the cash flow statement? When is the 700,000 actually needed? Now or for the land closing? Investment schedule? Investment Return Is Equity Repayment the return of the original investment? Is the plan to wait until the last unit is sold and closed before profits are distributed? Debt Which entity is the borrower for each loan and what recourse or collateral is associated with each loan? Improvement Construction Are these the only two loans?  Looks like it from the cash flow statement. Terms of each loan? Uses of Funds How will disbursements be made?  By whom? What type of bank account?  Controls on max disbursement? Internet viewing for investors? Reports to track expenses vs plan? Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses? What is the relationship of Creekside Builders to the project?  Do you get paid a markup on subcontractors as a general contractor and paid gain out of profits? Do you or Larry receive any money in the form of salary or personal expenses before the ultimate payout of profits? Design and Construction When will design be complete? What input will investors have in selecting design and materials for units? What level of investor involvement will be possible during construction planning and permitting? Does Creekside have specific procedures for dealing with subcontractors, vendors, and other professionals? Such as always getting 3 bids, payment schedules, or reference checking? Are there any specific companies or individuals that you already plan to use? Names? These questions are probably very basic to you, but as a first time investor in a project like this it is new to me.  Also, I want to learn as much as possible from the process. Phillip 
Enclosed is the preliminary proforma for the Westgate property is Austin that we told you about.  As you can tell from the proforma this project should produce a truly exceptional return of over 40% per year over 3 years. This is especially attractive when the project is in a market as strong as Austin and we are introducing new product that in a very low price range for this market.  This is the best project in terms of risk and reward that we have uncovered to date in the Austin market. The project does have approved zoning and will only require a site plan.  As it is in the ""Smart Growth Corridor"" area designated by the City of Austin for preferred development, this will be fast tracked and should be complete in less than 6 months.  Additionally, many of the current and more severe water treatment ordinances have been waived.  I have estimated the lot improvement costs based on a 28 lot development we investigated in North Austin, which included a detention/retention and filtration pond and street widening.  Even though this property is not likely to require street widening and will have less of a detention/retention and filtration pond requirement, I used this data to be cautious. The Lone Star gas line easement in the lower portion of the property is not expected to impact sales significantly.  Other projects have been quite successful with identical relationships to this pipeline, such as the adjoining single family residential and a project at St. Edwards University. As with most infill projects, the quality of the surrounding neighborhoods is uneven.  We have included a fence around the entire property, but may only put it on Westgate and Cameron Loop.  Gated communities are far preferred so this is a good idea for both screening and current buyer preferences. The seller accepted our offer Thursday evening with a price of $680,000 and an extended escrow.  This will enable us to probably obtain an approved site plan before closing on the contract, which will mean that we can close into an A&D Loan rather than into a land loan and then an improvement loan. This analysis shows your investment at $700,000 for a 50% interest in the profits of the project.  As we discussed in San Marcos, we can also discuss having you invest only in the lots, sell the lots to the construction entity with your profit in the lot.  I believe this would facilitate the use of a 1031 Exchange of the proceeds from this deal into another project that is a rental deal or at least into the land for a rental project that would then be the equity for that project.  You would need to discuss this with an exchange expert first.  Larry Lewter knows an expert in the field in San Antonio if you do not know anyone. I will send you a package on the property that was prepared by the broker, by Airborne Express today for Saturday delivery. Once you have read the package and reviewed this proforma, we would want to schedule a tour of the site and the area.  Please get back to me as soon as your schedule permits regarding the site visit and feel free to call at any time.  You can reach me over the weekend and in the evening at either 512-338-1119 or 512-338-1110.  My cell phone is 512-748-7495 and the fax is 512-338-1103.   I look forward to hearing from you and to working with you on this project that is sure to be a major winner. I regret that it took so long to get back to you, but we had some unusual events these past few weeks.  A small freakish wind storm with severe 60+mpg downdrafts hit the South part of Austin where we are building 10 town homes. One of these units had just had the roof decked with the siding scheduled to start the next day.  The severe downdraft hitting the decked roof was enough to knock it down.  The City shut down the project for a week and it took another week to get every thing back on tract.  Then last week I had to take my wife  to emergency.  She has a bulge in the material between the vertebra in her spine and it causes her extreme pain and has kept her bedridden this past week..  There is nothing like having your wife incapacitated to realize the enormous number of things she does everyday.   Fortunately, it looks as if she will be ok in the long run. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - Westgate Proforma-Phillip Allen.xls 
George, Here sales numbers from Reagan: As you can see his units sold at a variety of prices per square foot.  The 1308/1308 model seems to have the most data and looks most similiar to the units you are selling.  At  2.7 MM, my bid is .70/sf higher than his units under construction.  I am having a hard time justifying paying much more with competition on the way.  The price I am bidding is higher than any deals actually done to date. Let me know what you think.  I will follow up with an email and phone call about Cherry Creek.  I am sure Deborah Yates let you know that the bid was rejected on the De Ville property. Phillip Allen 
Jeff, What is up with Burnet? 
Jeff, I need to see the site plan for Burnet.  Remember I must get written approval from Brenda Key Stone before I can sell this property and she has concerns about the way the property will be subdivided.    I would also like to review the closing statements as soon as possible. 
Lucy, I want to have an accurate rent roll as soon as possible. I faxed you a copy of this file.  You can fill in on the computer or just write in the correct amounts and I will input. 
Brenda, I checked my records and I mailed check #1178 for the normal amount on August 28th.  I mailed it to 4303 Pate Rd. #29, College Station, TX 77845.  I will go ahead and mail you another check.  If the first one shows up you can treat the 2nd as payment for October. I know your concerns about the site plan.  I will not proceed without getting the details and getting your approval. I will find that amortization schedule and send it soon. 
Lucy, You wrote fewer checks this month.  Spent more money on Materials and less on Labor. June  July  August Total Materials  2929  4085  4801 Services  53  581  464 Labor   3187  3428  2770 Here are my questions on the August bank statement (attached): 1.  Check 1406  Walmart    Description and unit? 2.  Check 1410  Crumps     Detail description and unit? 3.  Check 1411  Lucy      What is this? 4.  Check 1415  Papes      Detail description and units? 5.  Checks 1416, 1417, and 1425  Why overtime? 6.  Check 1428    Ralph's   What unit? 7.  Check 1438    Walmart?    Description and unit? Try and pull together the support for these items and get back to me. 
Phillip, Attached is the list.  Have your people fill in the columns highlighted in yellow.  As best can we will try not to overlap on accounts. Thanks, Mike 
- Full Name:        Phillip Allen Login ID:  	pallen Extension:  3-7041 Office Location:  EB3210C What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both)  Both Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada)  IPAQ Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar?  NO If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar?  YES If yes, who?  INA RANGEL Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who?  NO Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who?  NO Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar?  YES, West Calendar Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here:  NO Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use:  NONE In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Enclosed is the preliminary proforma for the Westgate property is Austin that we told you about.  As you can tell from the proforma this project should produce a truly exceptional return of over 40% per year over 3 years. This is especially attractive when the project is in a market as strong as Austin and we are introducing new product that in a very low price range for this market.  This is the best project in terms of risk and reward that we have uncovered to date in the Austin market. The project does have approved zoning and will only require a site plan.  As it is in the ""Smart Growth Corridor"" area designated by the City of Austin for preferred development, this will be fast tracked and should be complete in less than 6 months.  Additionally, many of the current and more severe water treatment ordinances have been waived.  I have estimated the lot improvement costs based on a 28 lot development we investigated in North Austin, which included a detention/retention and filtration pond and street widening.  Even though this property is not likely to require street widening and will have less of a detention/retention and filtration pond requirement, I used this data to be cautious. The Lone Star gas line easement in the lower portion of the property is not expected to impact sales significantly.  Other projects have been quite successful with identical relationships to this pipeline, such as the adjoining single family residential and a project at St. Edwards University. As with most infill projects, the quality of the surrounding neighborhoods is uneven.  We have included a fence around the entire property, but may only put it on Westgate and Cameron Loop.  Gated communities are far preferred so this is a good idea for both screening and current buyer preferences. The seller accepted our offer Thursday evening with a price of $680,000 and an extended escrow.  This will enable us to probably obtain an approved site plan before closing on the contract, which will mean that we can close into an A&D Loan rather than into a land loan and then an improvement loan. This analysis shows your investment at $700,000 for a 50% interest in the profits of the project.  As we discussed in San Marcos, we can also discuss having you invest only in the lots, sell the lots to the construction entity with your profit in the lot.  I believe this would facilitate the use of a 1031 Exchange of the proceeds from this deal into another project that is a rental deal or at least into the land for a rental project that would then be the equity for that project.  You would need to discuss this with an exchange expert first.  Larry Lewter knows an expert in the field in San Antonio if you do not know anyone. I will send you a package on the property that was prepared by the broker, by Airborne Express today for Saturday delivery. Once you have read the package and reviewed this proforma, we would want to schedule a tour of the site and the area.  Please get back to me as soon as your schedule permits regarding the site visit and feel free to call at any time.  You can reach me over the weekend and in the evening at either 512-338-1119 or 512-338-1110.  My cell phone is 512-748-7495 and the fax is 512-338-1103.   I look forward to hearing from you and to working with you on this project that is sure to be a major winner. I regret that it took so long to get back to you, but we had some unusual events these past few weeks.  A small freakish wind storm with severe 60+mpg downdrafts hit the South part of Austin where we are building 10 town homes. One of these units had just had the roof decked with the siding scheduled to start the next day.  The severe downdraft hitting the decked roof was enough to knock it down.  The City shut down the project for a week and it took another week to get every thing back on tract.  Then last week I had to take my wife  to emergency.  She has a bulge in the material between the vertebra in her spine and it causes her extreme pain and has kept her bedridden this past week..  There is nothing like having your wife incapacitated to realize the enormous number of things she does everyday.   Fortunately, it looks as if she will be ok in the long run. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - Westgate Proforma-Phillip Allen.xls 
Jeff, I received the rent roll.  I am going to be in San Marcos this weekend but I am booked with stage coach.  I will drive by Friday evening. I will let you know next week if I need to see the inside.  Can you find out when Chelsea Villa last changed hands and for what price? What about getting a look at the site plans for the Burnet deal.  Remember we have to get Brenda happy. 
9/8  9/7  diff Socal  36,600  37,200  -600 NWPL  -51,000  -51,250  250 San Juan -32,500  -32,000  -500 The reason the benchmark report shows net selling San Juan is that the transport positions were rolled in on 9/8.  This added 800 shorts to San Juan and 200 longs to Socal.  Before this adjustment we bought 300 San Juan and sold 800 Socal. 
why is aeco basis so low on the list?  Is NWPL mapped differently than AECO? 
Jeff, You would clearly receive a commission on a deal on the sagewood. I am surprised by your request for payment on any type of project in which I might become involved with Creekside.  Are you in the business of brokering properties or contacts?  Is your position based on a legal or what you perceive to be an ethical issue?  Did you propose we look at developing a project from scratch? I am not prepared to pay more than 2.7 for sagewood yet. 
I was aware that Regan Lehman, the lot developer for the entire 70 lot duplex project, was selling his units in the $180's,  He does have a much lower basis in the lots than anyone else, but the prime differences are due to a) he is selling them during construction and b) they are smaller units. We do not know the exact size of each of his units, but we believe one of the duplexes is a 1164/1302 sq ft. plan.  This would produce an average sq footage of 1233, which would be $73.80 psf at $182,000.  (I thought his sales price was $187,000.)  At this price psf our 1,376 sf unit would sell for $203,108. What is more important, in my view, is a) the rental rate and b) the rent-ability.  You have all of our current rental and cost data for your own evaluation.  As for rent-ability, I believe that we have shown that the 3-bedroom, 3.5 bath is strongly preferred in this market.    In fact, if we were able to purchase additional lots from Regan we would build 4 bedroom units along with the 3-bedroom plan. Phillip, I will call you today to go over this more thoroughly. Sincerely, George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC 
Enclosed is the preliminary proforma for the Westgate property is Austin that we told you about.  As you can tell from the proforma this project should produce a truly exceptional return of over 40% per year over 3 years. This is especially attractive when the project is in a market as strong as Austin and we are introducing new product that in a very low price range for this market.  This is the best project in terms of risk and reward that we have uncovered to date in the Austin market. The project does have approved zoning and will only require a site plan.  As it is in the ""Smart Growth Corridor"" area designated by the City of Austin for preferred development, this will be fast tracked and should be complete in less than 6 months.  Additionally, many of the current and more severe water treatment ordinances have been waived.  I have estimated the lot improvement costs based on a 28 lot development we investigated in North Austin, which included a detention/retention and filtration pond and street widening.  Even though this property is not likely to require street widening and will have less of a detention/retention and filtration pond requirement, I used this data to be cautious. The Lone Star gas line easement in the lower portion of the property is not expected to impact sales significantly.  Other projects have been quite successful with identical relationships to this pipeline, such as the adjoining single family residential and a project at St. Edwards University. As with most infill projects, the quality of the surrounding neighborhoods is uneven.  We have included a fence around the entire property, but may only put it on Westgate and Cameron Loop.  Gated communities are far preferred so this is a good idea for both screening and current buyer preferences. The seller accepted our offer Thursday evening with a price of $680,000 and an extended escrow.  This will enable us to probably obtain an approved site plan before closing on the contract, which will mean that we can close into an A&D Loan rather than into a land loan and then an improvement loan. This analysis shows your investment at $700,000 for a 50% interest in the profits of the project.  As we discussed in San Marcos, we can also discuss having you invest only in the lots, sell the lots to the construction entity with your profit in the lot.  I believe this would facilitate the use of a 1031 Exchange of the proceeds from this deal into another project that is a rental deal or at least into the land for a rental project that would then be the equity for that project.  You would need to discuss this with an exchange expert first.  Larry Lewter knows an expert in the field in San Antonio if you do not know anyone. I will send you a package on the property that was prepared by the broker, by Airborne Express today for Saturday delivery. Once you have read the package and reviewed this proforma, we would want to schedule a tour of the site and the area.  Please get back to me as soon as your schedule permits regarding the site visit and feel free to call at any time.  You can reach me over the weekend and in the evening at either 512-338-1119 or 512-338-1110.  My cell phone is 512-748-7495 and the fax is 512-338-1103.   I look forward to hearing from you and to working with you on this project that is sure to be a major winner. I regret that it took so long to get back to you, but we had some unusual events these past few weeks.  A small freakish wind storm with severe 60+mpg downdrafts hit the South part of Austin where we are building 10 town homes. One of these units had just had the roof decked with the siding scheduled to start the next day.  The severe downdraft hitting the decked roof was enough to knock it down.  The City shut down the project for a week and it took another week to get every thing back on tract.  Then last week I had to take my wife  to emergency.  She has a bulge in the material between the vertebra in her spine and it causes her extreme pain and has kept her bedridden this past week..  There is nothing like having your wife incapacitated to realize the enormous number of things she does everyday.   Fortunately, it looks as if she will be ok in the long run. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - Westgate Proforma-Phillip Allen.xls 
_________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com. Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at http://profiles.msn.com. - utility.xls - utility.xls 
Executive Impact & Influence Program * IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED - Do Not Delete * As part of the Executive Impact and Influence Program, each participant is asked to gather input on the participant's own management styles and practices as experienced by their immediate manager, each direct report, and up to eight peers/colleagues. You have been requested to provide feedback for a participant attending the next program.  Your input (i.e., a Self assessment, Manager assessment, Direct Report assessment, or Peer/Colleague assessment) will be combined with the input of others and used by the program participant to develop an action plan to improve his/her management styles and practices. It is important that you complete this assessment NO LATER THAN CLOSE OF BUSINESS Thursday, September 14. Since the feedback is such an important part of the program, the participant will be asked to cancel his/her attendance if not enough feedback is received.  Therefore, your feedback is critical. To complete your assessment, please click on the following link or simply open your internet browser and go to: http://www.fsddatasvc.com/enron Your unique ID for each participant you have been asked to rate is: Unique ID - Participant EVH3JY - John Arnold ER93FX - John Lavorato EPEXWX - Hunter Shively If you experience technical problems, please call Dennis Ward at FSD Data Services, 713-942-8436.  If you have any questions about this process, you may contact Debbie Nowak at Enron, 713-853-3304, or Christi Smith at Keilty, Goldsmith & Company, 858-450-2554. Thank you for your participation. 
Larry, Just a note to touch base on the sagewood townhomes and other development opportunities. I stumbled across some other duplexes for sale on the same street. that were built by Reagan Lehmann.  22 Units were sold for around $2 million. ($182,000/duplex).  I spoke to Reagan and he indicated that he had more units under construction that would be available in the 180's.  Are the units he is selling significantly different from yours?  He mentioned some of the units are the 1308 floor plan.  My bid of 2.7 million is almost $193,000/duplex. As far as being an investor in a new project, I am still very interested. Call or email with your thoughts. 
Current Notes User: REASONS FOR USING OUTLOOK WEB ACCESS (OWA) 1. Once your mailbox has been migrated from Notes to Outlook, the Outlook c= lient will be configured on your computer. After migration of your mailbox, you will not be able to send or recieve ma= il via Notes, and you will not be able to start using Outlook until it is c= onfigured by the Outlook Migration team the morning after your mailbox is m= igrated.  During this period, you can use Outlook Web Access (OWA) via your= web browser (Internet Explorer 5.0) to read and send mail. PLEASE NOTE:  Your calendar entries, personal address book, journals, and T= o-Do entries imported from Notes will not be available until the Outlook cl= ient is configured on your desktop. 2. Remote access to your mailbox. After your Outlook client is configured, you can use Outlook Web Access (OW= A) for remote access to your mailbox. PLEASE NOTE:  At this time, the OWA client is only accessible while connect= ing to the Enron network (LAN).  There are future plans to make OWA availab= le from your home or when traveling abroad. HOW TO ACCESS OUTLOOK WEB ACCESS (OWA) Launch Internet Explorer 5.0, and in the address window type:  http://nahou= -msowa01p/exchange/john.doe Substitute ""john.doe"" with your first and last name, then click ENTER.  You= will be prompted with a sign in box as shown below.  Type in ""corp/your us= er id"" for the user name and your NT password to logon to OWA and click OK.= You will now be able to view your mailbox.  PLEASE NOTE:  There are some subtle differences in the functionality betwee= n the Outlook and OWA clients.  You will not be able to do many of the thin= gs in OWA that you can do in Outlook.  Below is a brief list of *some* of t= he functions NOT available via OWA: Features NOT available using OWA: -  Tasks -  Journal -  Spell Checker -  Offline Use -  Printing Templates -  Reminders -  Timed Delivery -  Expiration -  Outlook Rules -  Voting, Message Flags and Message Recall -  Sharing Contacts with others -  Task Delegation -  Direct Resource Booking -  Personal Distribution Lists QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS? If you have questions or concerns using the OWA client, please contact the = Outlook 2000 question and answer Mailbox at: Outlook.2000@enron.com Otherwise, you may contact the Resolution Center at: 713-853-1411 Thank you, Outlook 2000 Migration Team 
Ina, 
Ina, Can you pull Tori K.'s and Martin Cuilla's resumes and past performance reviews from H.R. 
The commercial support people that you and Hunter want to make commercial managers. 
Program 
John Lavorato-M Mike Grigsby-D Keith Holst-D Frank Ermis-D Steve South-D Janie Tholt-D Scott Neal-P Hunter Shively-P Tom Martin-P John Arnold-P 
Mark, Here is a spreadsheet detailing our September Socal trades. (I did not distinguish between buys vs. sells.) Phillip 
Richard, Compare your california production to the numbers in the 2000 California Gas Report.  It shows 410.  But again that might be just what the two utilities 
Cooper, Can you give access to the new west power site to Jay Reitmeyer.  He is an analyst in our group. 
Program 
John Lavorato-M Mike Grigsby-D Keith Holst-D Frank Ermis-D Steve South-D Janie Tholt-D Scott Neal-P Hunter Shively-P Tom Martin-P John Arnold-P 
Current Notes User:=20 To ensure that you experience a successful migration from Notes to Outlook,= it is necessary to gather individual user information prior to your date o= f migration.  Please take a few minutes to completely fill out the followin= g survey.  When you finish, simply click on the 'Reply' button then hit 'Se= nd'  Your survey will automatically be sent to the Outlook 2000 Migration M= ailbox. Thank you. Outlook 2000 Migration Team ---------------------------------------------------------------------------= ----------------------------------------------------------------- Full Name:       =20 Login ID: =20 Extension: =20 Office Location: =20 What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both) =20 Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilo= t, Jornada) =20 Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar? =20 If yes, who? =20 Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar? =20 If yes, who? =20 Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? =20 If yes, who? =20 Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? =20 If yes, who? =20 Do you have access to a shared calendar? =20 If yes, which shared calendar? =20 Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for m= ass mailings)? =20 If yes, please list here: =20 Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use: =20 In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will = need to know: 
John Lavorato-M Mike Grigsby-D Keith Holst-D Frank Ermis-D Steve South-D Janie Tholt-D Scott Neal-P Hunter Shively-P Tom Martin-P 
Mark, Here is a spreadsheet detailing our September Socal trades. (I did not distinguish between buys vs. sells.) Phillip 
Greg, Got your message.  Good luck on the bike ride. What were you doing to your apartment?  Are you setting up a studio? The kids are back in school.  Otherwise just work is going on here. 
Mark, Here is a spreadsheet detailing our September Socal trades. (I did not distinguish between buys vs. sells.) 
Mark, Were you able to log in to enron online and find socal today? I will follow up with a list of our physical deals done yesterday and today. 
Brenda Can you send me your address in College Station. 
Sorry, Report as of August 24, 2000 
Mark, The following is a guest password that will allow you temporary view only access to EnronOnline.  Please note, the user ID and password are CASE SENSITIVE. Guest User ID:  GNA45925 Guest Password: YJ53KU42 Log in to www.enrononline.com and install shockwave using instructions below.  I have set up a composite page with western basis and cash prices to help you filter through the products.  The title of the composite page is Mark's Page.  If you have any problems logging in you can call me at (713)853-7041 or Kathy Moore, EnronOnline HelpDesk, 713/853-HELP (4357). The Shockwave installer can be found within ""About EnronOnline"" on the home page.  After opening ""About EnronOnline"", using right scroll bar, go to the bottom.  Click on ""download Shockwave"" and follow the directions.  After loading Shockwave, shut down and reopen browser (i.e. Microsoft Internet Explorer/Netscape). I hope you will find this site useful. Sincerely, Phillip Allen 
Mark, Attached is a spreadsheet that lists the end of day midmarkets for socal basis and socal/san juan spreads.  I listed the days during bidweek that reflected financial trading for Socal Index and the actual gas daily prints before and after bidweek. The following observations can be made: July 1.  The basis market  anticipated a Socal/San Juan spread of .81 vs actual of .79 2.  Perceived index was 4.95 vs actual of 4.91 3.  Socal Gas Daily Swaps are trading at a significant premium. Aug. 1.  The basis market  anticipated a Socal/San Juan spread of 1.04 vs actual of .99 2.  Perceived index was 4.54 vs actual of 4.49 3.  Gas daily spreads were much wider before and after bidweek than the monthly postings 4.  Socal Gas Daily Swaps are trading at a significant premium. Enron Online will allow you to monitor the value of financial swaps against the index, as well as, spreads to other locations.  Please call with any questions. Phillip 
Alan, You should have received updated numbers from Keith Holst.  Call me if you did not receive them. 
Suzanne, Can you give me more details or email  the plan prior to meeting?  What do I need to provide besides headcount? Otherwise any afternoon next week would be fine 
Colleen, Please add Mike Grigsby to the distribution. On another note, do you have any idea how Patti is holding up? 
Brad, With regard to Tori Kuykendall, I would like to promote her to commercial manager instead of converting her from a commercial support manager to an associate.  Her duties since the beginning of the year have been those of a commercial manager.  I have no doubt that she will compare favorably to others in that category at year end. Martin Cuilla on the central desk is in a similiar situation as Tori. Hunter would like Martin handled the same as Tori. Let me know if there are any issues. 
Bruce, Can you stop by and set up my reuters. 
Lucy, The rent roll spreadsheet is starting to look better.  See if you can add these modifications: 1.  Use a formula in column E.  Add the value in column C to column D.  It should read =c6+d6.  Then copy this formula to the rows below. 2.  Column H needs a formula.  Subtract amount paid from amount owed. =e6-g6. 3.  Column F is filled with the #### sign.  this is because the column width is too narrow.  Use you mouse to click on the line beside the letter F.  Hold the left mouse button down and drag the column wider. 4.  After we get the rent part fixed, lets bring the database columns up to this sheet and place them to the right in columns J and beyond. 
Lucy, I got your email with the attachment.  Let's work together today to get this done 
Lucy, We can discuss your email later.  How is progress on creating the spreadsheets.  You will probably need to close the file before you attach to an email.  It is 2:00.  I really want to make some progress on these two files. 
Lucy, Please open this excel file and input the rents and names due for this week. Then email the file back. 
Open the ""utility"" spreadsheet and try to complete the analysis of whether it is better to be a small commercial or a medium commercial (LP-1). You will need to get the usage for that meter for the last 12 months.  If we have one year of data, we can tell which will be cheaper.  Use the rates described in the spreadsheet.  This is a great chance for you to practice excel. 
Phillip, I got this request.  On the gas side, I think Kean/Lay need an update to a table you prepared for me a few months ago, which I've attached..  Can you oblige?  Thanks, Alan Comnes 
Alan, Steve has asked that you update the power point below so that it reflects all of the ""stupid regulatory/legislative decisions"" since the beginning of the year.  Ken wants to have this updated chart in his briefing book for next week's ""Ken Lay Tour"" to CA. He also wants a forward price curve for both gas and power in CA.  Can we get these three documents by Monday afternoon? 
Mac, Thanks for the research report on EOG.  Here are my observations: Gas Sales 916,000/day x 365 days = 334,340,000/year Estimated Gas Prices $985,721,000/334,340,000= $2.95/mcf Actual gas prices are around $1.00/mcf higher and rising. Recalc of EPS with more accurate gas prices: (334,340,000 mct X $1/mcf)/116,897,000 shares outst = $2.86 additional EPS X 12 P/E multiple = $34 a share That is just a back of the envelope valuation based on gas prices.  I think crude price are undervalued by the tune of $10/share. Current price 37 Nat. Gas 34 Crude  10 Total  81 Can you take a look at these numbers and play devil's advocate?  To me this looks like the best stock to own Also can you send me a report on Calpine, Tosco, and SLB? Thank you, Phillip 
Phillip, We have been working on different apartments today and having to listen to different, people about what Mary is saying should i be worried? ants seem to be invading my apartment.You got my other fax's Wade is working on the bulletin board that I need up so that I can let tenants know about what is going on.Gave #25 a notice about having to many people staying in that apt and that problem has been resolved.Also I have a tenant in #29 that is complaining about #28 using fowl language.I sent #28 a lease violation we will see how that goes call you tomorrow Thanx Lucy ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
Phillip, The a/c I bought today for #17 cost $166.71 pd by ck#1429 8/16/00 at WAL-MART.Also on 8/15/00 Ralph's Appliance Centerck#1428 frig & stove for apt #20-B IVOICE # 000119 AMT=308.56 (STOVE=150.00 (frig=125.00)DEL CHRG=15.00\TAX=18.56 TOTAL=308.56.FAX MACHINE FOR FFICE CK # 1427=108.25 FROM sTEELMAN OFFICE PRODUC TS.                                           Thanxs, Lucy ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
Phillip, Today was one of those days because Wade had to go pay his fine and I had to go take him that takes alot of time out of my schedule.If you get a chance will you mention to him that he needs to, try to fix his van so tht he can go get what ever he needs. Tomorrow gary is going to be here.I have to go but Iwill E-Mail you tomorrow Lucy ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
I checked into exercising options with Smith Barney, but Enron has some kind of exclusive with Paine Weber.  I am starting to exercise now, but I am going to use the proceeds to buy another apartment complex. What do you think about selling JDSU and buying SDLI? Also can you look at EOG as a play on rising oil and gas prices. Thanks, 
I tried the new address but I don't have access.  also, what do I need to 
Cooper, This is the website I use: http://ectpdx-sunone/~ctatham/navsetup/index.htm Should I use a different address. 
Cooper, Did you add some more security to the expost hourly summary?  It keeps asking me for additional passwords and domain.  What do I need to enter? 
Stephanie Please grant Paul the requested eol rights Thanks, 
Phillip, I got this request.  On the gas side, I think Kean/Lay need an update to a table you prepared for me a few months ago, which I've attached..  Can you oblige?  Thanks, Alan Comnes 
Alan, Steve has asked that you update the power point below so that it reflects all of the ""stupid regulatory/legislative decisions"" since the beginning of the year.  Ken wants to have this updated chart in his briefing book for next week's ""Ken Lay Tour"" to CA. He also wants a forward price curve for both gas and power in CA.  Can we get these three documents by Monday afternoon? 
Cash Hehub Chicago PEPL Katy Socal Opal Permian Gas Daily Hehub Chicago PEPL Katy Socal NWPL Permian Prompt Nymex Chicago PEPL HSC Socal 
Colleen, I am out ot the office on Friday, but Keith Holst will attend.  He has been managing the Transport on the west desk. 
Lucy, Now that #44 is rented and you have settled in for a couple of months, we need to focus on expenses and recordkeeping. First, I want to implement the following changes: 1.  No Overtime without my written (or email) instructions. 2.  Daily timesheets for you and Wade faxed to me daily 3.  Paychecks will be issued each Friday by me at the State Bank 4.  No more expenditures on office or landscape than is necessary for basic operations. Moving on to the checkbook, I have attached a spreadsheet that organizes all the checks since Jan. 1. When you open the file, go to the ""Checkbook"" tab and look at the yellow highlighted items.  I have questions about these items. Please gather receipts so we can discuss. Phillip 
Ina, How many times do you think Jeff wants to get this message.  Please help Phillip 
Ina, I keep getting these security requests that I cannot approve.  Please take care of this. Phillip 
Please review and act upon this request. You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000001282&Email =phillip.k.allen@enron.com to approve th Request ID          : 000000000001282 Request Create Date : 8/8/00 9:15:59 AM Requested For       : frank.ermis@enron.com Resource Name       : Market Data Telerate Basic Energy Resource Type       : Applications 
Lucy, I didn't get a fax with the July bank statement on Friday.  Can you refax it to 713 646 2391 
Outlook Migration Team@ENRON 05/11/2001 01:49 PM 
Current Notes User:=20 To ensure that you experience a successful migration from Notes to Outlook,= it is necessary to gather individual user information prior to your date o= f migration.  Please take a few minutes to completely fill out the followin= g survey. Double Click on document to put it in ""Edit"" mode. When you finis= h, simply click on the 'Reply With History' button then hit 'Send'  Your su= rvey will automatically be sent to the Outlook 2000 Migration Mailbox. Thank you. Outlook 2000 Migration Team ---------------------------------------------------------------------------= ----------------------------------------------------------------- Full Name:        Phillip Allen Login ID:  pallen Extension:  37041 Office Location:  EB3210C What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both)  Both Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilo= t, Jornada)  IPAQ Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar?   If yes, who? =20 Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar?  Yes, Ina Ran= gel If yes, who? =20 Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book?   If yes, who? =20 Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? =20 If yes, who? =20 Do you have access to a shared calendar? =20 If yes, which shared calendar? =20 Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for m= ass mailings)? =20 If yes, please list here: =20 Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use: =20 In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will = need to know: 
Attached is the link to the site that we reviewed in today's meeting.  The site is a work in progress, so please forward your comments. http://gasfundy.dev.corp.enron.com/ Chris 
Hunter, Are you watching Alberto?  Do you have Yahoo Messenger or Hear Me turned on? 
can you build something to look at historical prices from where we saved curves each night. Here is an example that pulls socal only. Improvements could include a drop down menu to choose any curve and a choice of index,gd, or our curves. 
John, The only long term deal in the west that you could put prudency against is the PGT transport until 2023 
Lucy, I will call you this afternoon to discuss the things in your email. 
I am sending off a follow-up to a bid I submitted to Clark County PUD.  They have requested term pricing for Stanfield on a volume of 17,000.  Could you give me a basis for the period : Sept -00 - May 31, 2006 Sept-00 - May 31, 2008 Since I assume you do not keep a Stanfield basis, but rather a basis off Malin or Rockies, it would probably make sense to show the basis as an adjustment to one of these point.  Also, what should the Mid - Offer Spread be on these terms. Thanks, Mike 
Wade, I understood your number one priority was to deal with your vehicle situation.  You need to take care of it this week.  Lucy can't hold the tenants to a standard (vehicles must be in running order with valid stickers) if the staff doesn't live up to it.  If you decide to buy a small truck and you want to list me as an employer for credit purposes, I will vouch for your income. 
the merlin ct. address is still good.  I don't know why the mailing would be 
Tim, Can you authorize access to the west power site for Keith Holtz.  He is our Southern California basis trader and is under a two year contract. On another note, is it my imagination or did the SARR website lower its forecast for McNary discharge during May.  It seems like the flows have been lowered into the 130 range and there are fewer days near 170.  Also the second half of April doesn't seem to have panned out as I expected.  The outflows stayed at 100-110 at McNary.  Can you email or call with some additional insight? Thank you, 
Here is the 1st draft of a wish list for systems. 
skipping stone animation Have you seen us lately? Come see what's new www.skippingstone.com Energy Experts Consulting to the Energy Industry ! 
fyi  CIG 
Kay, I will be down that weekend, but I am not sure about the rest of the family. All is well here.  I will try to bring some pictures if I can't bring the real thing. 
Celeste, I need two assoc./analyst for the west gas trading desk.  Can you help? I also left you a voice mail. Phillip x37041 
Celeste, I need two assoc./analyst for the west gas trading desk.  Can you help? I also left you a voice mail. Phillip 
please add mike grigsby to distribution list. 
Attached please find a spreadsheet containing a list of natural gas customers in the Global Counterparty database.  These are all active counterparties, although we may not be doing any business with them currently.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call me at x33198. Jason Moore 
Ina, 
Al, I am not in good enough shape to ride a century right now.  Plus I'm nursing some injuries.  I can do lunch this week or next, let's pick a day. 
Brenda, The word document attached is a notice/consent form for the sale.  The excel file is an amortization table for the note. You can use the Additional Principal Reduction to record prepayments.  Please email me back to confirm receipt. Phillip 
Jeff, I have spoken to Brenda and everything looks good.  Matt Lutz was supposed to email me some language but I did not receive it.  I don't have his # so can you follow up.  When is the estimated closing date.  Let me know what else I need to be doing. 
Gary, I have also been speaking to Johnnie Brown in San Antonio to be the general contractor.  According to Johnnie, I would not be pay any less buying from the factory versus purchasing the panels through him since my site is within his region.  Assuming this is true, I will work directly with him.  I believe he has sent you my plans.  They were prepared by Kipp Flores architects. Can you confirm that the price is the same direct from the factory or from the distributor?  If you have the estimates worked up for Johnnie will you please email them to me as well? Thank you for your time.  I am excited about potentially using your product. 
gary, 
Tim, Matt sent you a email with his attempt to organize some of the cems and wscc data.  Tim H. expressed concern over the reliability of the wscc data.  I don't know if we should scrap the wscc or just keep monitoring in case it improves.  Let me know what you think. 
What are my choices for dates? 
Folks, you are the remaining officers of ENA that have not yet enrolled in this mandated training program.  It is ENA's goal to have all its officers through the program before the end of calendar year 2000.  The course has received very high marks for effectiveness.  Please take time now to enroll in the program. Speak to your HR representative if you need help getting signed up. Regards Delainey 
Lucy, I got your email.  I didn't have time to finish it.  I will read it this weekend and ask my dad about the a/c's.  I am glad you are enjoying the job.  This weekend I will mark up the lease and rules.  If I didn't mention this when I was there, the 4th is a paid holiday for you and Wade. Have a good weekend and I will talk to you next week. 
What is GIS info?  Can you do this? 
Charts for today's meeting are attached: 
Mark, We are currently back-testing the storage model. The enclosed version contains deltas and decision variable. You mentioned that you have resources to run the model. Please do so. This will help us to gain experience with the market vs the model. I am going to distribute an article by Caminus, an software vendor. The article illustrates the optionality associated with storage operation very well.  The Enron Research storage model  is a lot like that, although implementation may be different. Let me know if you have any questions. Zimin 
Wholesale Electric Markets 
Ray, Is there any detail on the gas cost proxy.  Which delivery points from which publication will be used?  Basically, can you help us get any clarification on the language ""the average daily cost of gas for all delivery points in California""? 
Dear Phillip, Frogger is leaving shockwave.com soon... Save it to your Shockmachine now! Every frog has his day - games, too. Frogger had a great run as an arcade classic, but it is leaving the shockwave.com pond soon. The good news is that you can download it to your Shockmachine and own it forever! Don't know about Shockmachine? You can download Shockmachine for free and save all of your downloadable favorites to play off-line, full-screen, whenever you want. Download Frogger by noon, PST on June 30th, while it's still on the site! the shockwave.com team ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Unsubscribe Instructions ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sure you want to unsubscribe and stop receiving E-mail from us? All right... click here: http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/u/shk/s.asp?e=pallen%40enron.com #27279 
Scott, I emailed your question to a friend that works for the new company.  I think I know the answer to your questions but I want to get the exact details from him.  Basically, they will offer energy  online at a fixed price or some price that undercuts the current provider.  Then once their sales are large enough they will go to the wholesale market to hedge and lock in a profit. The risk is that they have built in enough margin to give them room to manage the price risk.  This is my best guess.  I will get back to you with more. 
Lucy, I want to speak to Wade myself.  He can call me at work or home. Or if you email me his number I will call him. I would like Gary to direct Wade on renovation tasks and you can give him work orders for normal maintenance. I will call you tomorrow to discuss items from the office.  Do you need Mary to come in on any more Fridays?  I think I can guess your answer. I might stop by this Friday. 
http://ecthou-webcl1.nt.ect.enron.com/gas/ All the gas reports are under west desk Call Brian Hoskins for a password 
http://ecthou-webcl1.nt.ect.enron.com/gas/ All the gas reports are under west desk Call Brian Hoskins for a password 
http://ecthou-webcl1.nt.ect.enron.com/gas/ All the gas reports are under west desk Call Brian Hoskins for a password 
Ned, Regarding the Waha storage, the west desk does not have a strong need for this storage but we are always willing to show a bid based on the current summer/winter spreads and cycling value.  The following assumptions were made to establish our bid:  5% daily injection capacity, 10% daily withdrawal capacity, 1% fuel (injection only), 0.01/MMBtu variable injection and withdrawal fees.  Also an undiscounted  June 01 to January 02 spread of $0.60 existed at the time of this bid. Bid for a 1 year storage contract beginning June 01 based on above assumptions:  $0.05/ MMBtu/Month ($0.60/Year).  Demand charges only. I am not sure if this is exactly what you need or not.  Please call or email with comments. Phillip Allen 
Felix, Network: login pallen pw ke7davis Notes: pw synergi My location is 3210B. 
Lucy, Click on this attachment to see the format to record expenses.  You can keep a log on paper or on the computer.  The computer would be better for sending me updates. What do you think about being open until noon on Saturday.  This might be more convenient for collecting rent and showing open apartments. We can adjust office hours on another day. 
Jeff, I will respond to the offer on Monday.  There is a $35 Million expansion adding 250 jobs in Burnet.  I am tempted to hold for $3000/acre.  Owner financing would still work.   Do you have an opinion? 
Al, I was glad to hear from you.  I hope we can put the past behind us.  Sounds like you have been busy.  Congratulations on the new baby.  Judging from your email all is well with you.   That's great. We did have another girl in December, (Evelyn Grace).  Three is it for us. What's your target?  The other two are doing well.  Soccer, T-ball, and bike riding keeps them busy.  They could use some of Cole's coordination. My fitness program is not as intense as yours right now.  I am just on maintenance.  You will be surprised to hear that Hunter is a fanatical cyclist.  We have been riding to work twice a week for the last few months. He never misses, rain or shine.  Sometimes we even hit the trails in Memorial Park on Saturdays.   Mountain biking is not as hard as a 50 mile trip on the road.  I would like to dust off my road bike and go for a ride some Saturday. I would like to hear more about your new job.  Maybe we could grab lunch sometime. Phillip 
Mary, If we add both balances together the total is $1,140.  I can spread it over 6 or 12 months.  6 month payout would be $190/month. 12 month payout would be $95/month.  Your choice.  I would like it if you could work 5/hrs each Friday for another month or so.  Does $10/hr sound fair?  We can apply it to the loan. 
address:    http://ectpdx-sunone.ect.enron.com/~ctatham/navsetup/index.htm id:   pallen 
Lucy, I am going to be in Seguin this Saturday through Monday.  We can talk about a unit for Wade then.  I will call the bank again today to resolve authorization on the account.  Lets keep the office open until noon on Memorial day. 
Lucy, Did you get set up on the checking account?  Try and email me every day with a note about what happened that day. Just info about new vacancies or tenants and which apartments you and wade worked on each day. 
This note is authorization to make the following changes: 1.  Set up a new book for Frank Ermis-NW Basis 2.  Route these products to NW Basis: NWPL RkyMtn Malin PG&E Citygate 3. Route EPNG Permian to Todd Richardson's book FT-New Texas Call with questions. X37041 Thank you, 
Phil,  I suspect that discussions/negotiations are taking place behind closed doors ""in smoke filled rooms"", if not directly between Commissioners then among FERC staffers.  Never say never, but I think it is highly unlikely that the final order will contain a fixed price cap.  I base this belief in large part on what I heard at a luncheon I attended yesterday afternoon at which the keynote speaker was FERC Chairman Curt Hebert.  Although the Chairman began his presentation by expressly stating that he would not comment or answer questions on pending proceedings before the Commission, Hebert had some enlightening comments which relate to price caps: Price caps are almost never the right answer Price Caps will have the effect of prolonging shortages Competitive choices for consumers is the right answer Any solution, however short term, that does not increase supply or reduce demand, is not acceptable Eight out of eleven western Governors oppose price caps, in that they would export California's problems to the West This is the latest intelligence I have on the matter, and it's a pretty strong anti- price cap position.  Of course, Hebert is just one Commissioner out of 3 currently on the Commission, but he controls the meeting agenda and if the draft order is not to his liking, the item could be bumped off the agenda.  Hope this info helps.  Ray Phillip K Allen@ECT 04/25/2001 02:28 PM 
Are there behind closed doors discussions being held prior to the meeting?  Is there the potential for a surprise announcement of some sort of fixed price gas or power cap once the open meeting finally happens? <Embedded StdOleLink> 
[IMAGE] Natural Gas Transporation Contract Information and Pipeline Notices Delivered to Your Desktop http://www.capacitycenter.com [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE]				Register Now and Sign Up For A Free Trial Through The End Of May Bid Week Capacity Shopper: Learn about capacity release that is posted to bid. Pick up some transport at a good price or explore what releases are out there....it can affect gas prices! Daily Activity Reports: Check out the deals that were done! What did your competitors pick up, and how do their deals match up against yours? This offers you better market intelligence! System Notices: Have System Notices delivered to your desk. Don't be the last one to learn about an OFO because you were busy doing something else! [IMAGE] Capacity Shopper And Daily Activity Reports Have Improved Formats You choose the pipelines you want and we'll keep you posted via email on all the details! Check out this example of a Daily Activity Report. Coming Soon: A Statistical Snapshot on Capacity Release Don't miss this member-only opportunity to see a quick snapshot of the activity on all 48 interstate gas pipelines. This message has been sent to a select group of Industry Professionals, if you do not wish to receive future notices, please Reply to this e-mail with ""Remove"" in the subject line. Copyright 2000 - CapacityCenter.com, Inc. - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
Jeff, I would consider owner financing depending on: Established developer/individual/general credit risk What are they going to do with the land Rate/Term/Downpayment 25% Let me know. Phillip 
Dawn, I received your email with p&l's.  Please continue to send them daily. Thank you, 
No one will be home on 5/11/00 to meet DSL installers.  Need to reschedule to the following week.  Also, my PC at home has Windows 95.  Is this a problem? Call with questions. X37041. Thank you, 
Mike McDonald and I met with SW Gas this morning.  They were polite regarding asset management and procurement function outsourcing and are willing to listen to a proposal.  However, they are very interested in weather hedges to protect throughput related earnings.  We are pursuing a confidentiality agreement with them to facilitate the sharing of information that will enable us to develop proposals.  Our pitch was based upon enhancing shareholder value by outsourcing a non-profit and costly function (procurement) and by reducing the volatility of their earnings by managing throughput via a weather product. As to your other question.  We have yet to identify or pursue other candidates; however, Mike McDonald and I are developing a coverage strategy to ensure that we meet with all potential entities and investigate our opportunities.  We met with 8 entities this week (7 Municipals and SWG) as we implement our strategy in California. Are there any entities that you think would be interested in an asset management deal that we should approach?  Otherwise, we intend to systematically identify and work through all the candidates. Laird 
Laird, Did you meet with SWG on April 27th.  Are there any other asset management targets in the west? 
Janie, Thanks for the fax on SW Gas. We are meeting with Larry Black, Bob Armstrong & Ed Zub on April 27th to discuss asset management.  In preparation for that meeting we would like to gain an understanding of the nature of our business relationship with SW. Could you, in general terms, describe our sales activities with SW.  What are typical quantities and term on sales?  Are there any services we provide? How much pipeline capacity do we buy or sell to them?  Who are your main contacts at SW Gas? We will propose to provide a full requirements supply to SW involving our control of their assets.  For this to be attractive to SW, we will probably have to take on their regulatory risk on gas purchase disallowance with the commissions.  This will be difficult as there is no clear mandate from their commissions as to what an acceptable portfolio (fixed, indexed, collars....) should look like.  Offering them a guaranteed discount to the 1st of month index may not be attractive unless we accept their regulatory risk.  That risk may not be acceptable to the desk.  I will do some investigation of their PGA's and see if there is an opportunity. As to the asset management:  do you have any preference on structure?  Are there elements that you would like to see?  Any ideas at all would be greatly appreciated. Thanks, Laird 
Kay & Neal, Thanks for remembering my birthday.  You beat my parents by one day. The family is doing fine.  Grace is really smiling.  She is a very happy baby as long as she is being held. It sounds like your house is coming along fast.  I think my folks are ready to start building. We will probably visit in late June or July.  May is busy.  We are taking the kids to Disney for their birthdays. Good luck on the house. 
Today's charts are attached: 
Today's charts are attached: 
Mary, I spoke to Gary about the foundation work on #2 & #3.  He agreed that it would be better to just clean up #3 and do whatever he and Wade can do to #2.  Then they can just focus on #19.  I worked on the books this weekend but I need more time to finish.  I will call you in a day or so. 
Here is my DSL form. 
Beth, Here are our addresses for DSL lines: Hunter Shively 10545 Gawain Houston, TX 77024 713 461-4130 Phillip Allen 8855 Merlin Ct Houston, TX 77055 713 463-8626 Mike Grigsby 6201 Meadow Lake Houston, TX 77057 713 780-1022 Thanks 
mac, We will be there on the 9th and I will bring the paperwork. 
Mac, I checked into executing my options with Smith Barney.  Bad news.  Enron has an agreement with Paine Webber that is exclusive.  Employees don't have the choice of where to exercise.  I still would like to get to the premier service account, but I will have to transfer the money. Hopefully this will reach you. 
Gary, Here is a photograph of a similar house.  The dimensions would be 56'Wide X 41' Deep for the living area.  In addition there will be a 6' deep two story porch across the entire back and 30' across the front.  A modification to the front will be the addition of a gable across 25' on the left side.  The living area will be brought forward under this gable to be flush with the front porch. I don't have my floor plan with me at work today, but will bring in tomorrow and fax you a copy. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 pallen@enron.com 
Jeff, Could we set up an inspection for this Friday at 2:00? Listing for Burnet is in the mail 
tara, Please grant access to manage financial products to the following: Janie Tholt Frank Ermis Steve South Tory Kuykendall Matt Lenhart Randy Gay We are making markets on one day gas daily swaps.  Thank you. 
Mary, Go ahead and work with Gary to get a new fridge for #8. I am going to try and come down this Saturday. Talk to you later. 
Slides from this week's strategy session are attached: 
Mark, Thank you for the offer, but I am not doing the ride this year. Good luck. 
Stephane, Can you create an e-mail list to distribute your reports everyday to the west desk? Or put them on a common drive?  We can do the same with our reports.   List should include: Phillip Allen Mike Grigsby Keith Holst Frank Ermis Steve South Janie Tholt Tory Kuykendall Matt Lenhart Randy Gay Thanks. 
http://ectpdx-sunone/~ctatham/navsetup/index.htm id   pallen pw  westgasx 
As requested by John, here's the map and the forecast... Call me if you have any questions (403) 974-6756. 
Mary I was out of the office on friday. I will call you about wade later today 
As requested by John, here's the map and the forecast... Call me if you have any questions (403) 974-6756. 
socal position This is short, but is it good enough? 
David, I have been receiving your updates.  Either I forgot my password or do not have one.  Can you check? Phillip Allen Enron 
Will, Here is a list of the top items we need to work on to improve the position and p&l reporting for the west desk. My underlying goal is to create position managers and p&l reports that represent all the risk held by the desk and estimate p&l with great accuracy. Let's try and schedule a meeting for this Wednesday to go over the items above. Phillip 
Will, Here is a list of the top items we need to work on to improve the position and p&l reporting for the west desk. My underlying goal is to create position managers and p&l reports that represent all the risk held by the desk and estimate p&l with great accuracy. Let's try and schedule a meeting for this Wednesday to go over the items above. Phillip 
Let me know when you get the quotes from Pauline.  I am expecting to pay something in the $3,000 to $5,000 range.  I would like to see the quotes and a description of the work to be done.  It is my understanding that some rock will be removed and replaced with siding.  If they are getting quotes to put up new rock then we will need to clarify. Jacques is ready to drop in a dollar amount on the release.  If the negotiations stall, it seems like I need to go ahead and cut off the utilities.  Hopefully things will go smoothly. 
Mr. Allen - Per our phone conversation, please see the instructions below to get access to view FERC meetings.  Please advise if there are any problems, questions or concerns. Eric Benson Sr. Specialist Enron Government Affairs - The Americas 713-853-1711 ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
As long as you are configured to receive Real Video, you should be able to access the FERC meeting this Wednesday, November 8.  The instructions are below. 
Here is the URL address for the Capitol Connection.  You should be able to simply click on this URL below and it should come up for you.  (This is assuming your computer is configured for Real Video/Audio).  We will pay for the annual contract and bill your cost centers. You are connected for tomorrow as long as you have access to Real Video. http://www.capitolconnection.gmu.edu/ Instructions: Once into the Capitol Connection sight, click on FERC Click on first line (either ""click here"" or box) Dialogue box should require:  user name:  enron-y password:  fercnow Real Player will connect you to the meeting Expand your screen as you wish for easier viewing Adjust your sound as you wish 
Steve, Please remove Bob Shiring and Liz Rivera from rc #768. Thank you 
Go ahead and order the ac for #27. Can you email or fax a summary of all rents collected from August through December.  I need this to finish my tax return. I have all the expense data but not rent collection.  Fax number is 713-646-3239. Thank you, 
Anymore details?  Is the offer above or below 675? What else do you have in a clean 11cap in a good location with room to expand? 
$100 for the yard seems like enough for up to 12.5 hours.  How long did it take him?  I think $100 should be enough. Use Page Setup under the File menu to change  from Portrait to Landscape if you want to change from printing vertically to printing horizontally.  Also try selecting Fit to one page if you want your print out to be on only one page.  Use Print preview to see what your print out will look like before you print. The truck might need new sparkplugs at around 120,000-125,000 miles.  A valve adjustment might do some good.  It has idled very high for the last 25,000 miles, but it has never broken down. Glad to hear about the good deposit for this week.  Great job on February. 
Slides from yesterday's meeting are attached: 
It is ok to let the deposit rollover on #13 if there is no interruption in 
Dear Phillip, 7th Portal is a super hero action/adventure, featuring a global band of teenage game testers who get pulled into a parallel universe (through the 7th Portal) created through a warp in the Internet. The fate of the earth and the universe is in their hands as they fight Mongorr the Merciful -- the evil force in the universe. The legendary Stan Lee, creator of Spiderman and the Incredible Hulk, brings us ""Let the Game Begin,"" episode #1 of 7th Portal -- a new series exclusively on shockwave.com. - the shockwave.com team ===================== Advertisement ===================== Don't miss RollingStone.com! Watch Daily Music News. Download MP3s. Read album reviews. Get the scoop on 1000s of artists, including exclusive photos, bios, song clips & links. Win great prizes & MORE. http://ads07.focalink.com/SmartBanner/page?16573.37-%n ===================== Advertisement ===================== ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Unsubscribe Instructions ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sure you want to unsubscribe and stop receiving E-mail from us? All right... click here: http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/u/shk/s.asp?e=pallen%40enron.com #17094 
Imelda, Please switch my sitara access from central to west and email me with my password. thank you, 
Frank, The implied risk created by the san juan and rockies indeces being partially set after today is the same as the risk in a long futures position.  Whatever the risk was prior should not matter.  Since the rest of the books are very short price this should be a large offset.  If the VAR calculation does not match the company's true risk then it needs to be revised or adjusted. 
Mary, I transferred $10,000 out of the checking account on Monday 2/28/00.  I will call you Monday or Tuesday to see what is new. 
Jeff, Let's just close on March 1. 
Did any of you order this JEn 
? PIRA focuses on the  California/Southwest Region in its study of Natural Ga= s=20 Pipeline  Infrastructure PIRA  Energy Group announces the continuation of its new multi-client study= ,=20 The  Price of Reliability: The Value and Strategy of Gas  Transportation. The Price of Reliability, delivered in 6  parts (with each part representin= g=20 a discrete North American region), offers  insights into the changes and=20 developments in the North American natural gas  pipeline infrastructure. Th= e=20 updated prospectus, which is attached in PDF and  Word files, outlines PIRA= 's=20 approach and methodology, study deliverables  and?release dates. This note  is to inform you that PIRA has commenced its study of the third= =20 region:  California & the Southwest. As in all regions, this  study begins= =20 with a fundamental view of gas flows in the U.S. and Canada.  Pipelines in= =20 this region (covering CA, NV, AZ, NM) will be discussed in greater  detail= =20 within the North American context. Then we turn to the value of =20 transportation at the following three major pricing points with an assessme= nt=20 of  the primary market (firm), secondary market (basis) and asset market: ??????1) Southern  California border (Topock) ??????2) San Juan  Basin ??????3) Permian  Basin (Waha)? The California/SW region=01,s  workshop =01* a key element of the service = =01* will=20 take place on March 20, 2000,at 8:30 AM, at the Arizona Biltmore Hotel in = =20 Phoenix.?For those of you joining  us, a?discounted  block  of rooms is bei= ng=20 held through February 25. The attached prospectus explains the various  options for subscribing.?Plea= se=20 note  two key issues in regards to your subscribing options:?One, there is = a=20 10% savings for  PIRA retainer clients who order before February 25, 2000;= =20 and?two, there are discounts for  purchasing?more than one  region. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to  contact me. Sincerely, Jeff Steele Manager, Business  Development PIRA Energy Group (212) 686-6808 jsteele@pira.com =20 - PROSPECTUS.PDF - PROSPECTUS.doc 
tara, I received your email about setting up Paul Lucci and Niccole Cortez with executable id's.  The rights you set up are fine. Thank you for your help. 
mary, Are you sure you did the attachment right.  There was no file attached to your message.  Please try again. 
Mary, I got your email.  Go ahead and get a carpet shampooer.  Make sure it comes back clean after each use.  (Wade and the tenants.) As far as W-2.  I looked up the rules for withholding and social security. I will call you later today to discuss. 
Should I appeal to Skilling. 
Phillip - I applaud you for using your cycle as daily transportation.  Saves on gas, pollution and helps keep you strong and healthy.  Enron provides bike racks in the front of the building for requests such as this.  Phillip, I wish we could accommodate this request; however, The Body Shop does not have the capacity nor can assume the responsibility for storing cycles on a daily basis.  If you bring a very good lock you should be able to secure the bike at the designated outside racks. Keep Pedalling - Lee 
Slides for today's meeting are attached: 
> > > > George, > >      Can you please call my credit desk at 713-853-1803.  They have not > received any financials for ACN Power. > > Thanks, > > Phillip Allen > > 
> > > > George, > >      Can you please call my credit desk at 713-853-1803.  They have not > received any financials for ACN Power. > > Thanks, > > Phillip Allen > > 
George, Can you please call my credit desk at 713-853-1803.  They have not received any financials for ACN Power. Thanks, 
Kim, Doublecheck with Julie G. , but I think it ok to pay Jan. demand charges. 
I think Steven Wolf is the person to talk to about moving Kim Olinger to a 
I revised the supp-vendor sheet and have transferred the totals to the summary sheet. Please review and let me know if this is what you had in mind. Also, are we getting W-2 forms or what on our taxes. ______________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com - Jan00Expense.xls 
Jim, Updated curves will be sent no later than 11 am on Monday 2/7.  I want Keith to be involved in the process.  He was out today. Sorry for the slow turnaround. 
Tara, This note is documentation of my approval of granting executing id's to the west cash traders. Thank you for your help. 
here is the file I showed you. 
Julie, The numbers for January are below: Actual flows X gas daily spreads          $ 463,000 Actual flow X Index spreads           $ 543,000 Jan. value from original bid           $1,750,000 Estimated cost to unwind hedges         ($1,000,000) Based on these numbers, I suggest we offer to pay at least $500,000 but no more than $1,500,000.  I want your input on how to negotiate with El Paso.  Do we push actual value, seasonal shape, or unwind costs? Phillip 
- DOPEWARS.exe 
Will, I didn't get to review this.  I will give you feedback tomorrow morning 
Tara, Please make the following changes: FT-West -change master user from Phillip Allen to Keith Holst IM-West-Change master user from Bob Shiring to Phillip Allen Mock both existing profiles. Please make these changes on 1/17/00 at noon. Thank you 
Susan, I received an enrollment confirmation for a class that I did not sign up for.  Is there some mistake? 
Jeff/Brenda: Please authorize the following products for approval.  customers are expecting to see them on 1/14. PG&E Citygate-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical Malin-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical Keystone-Monthly Index Physical Socal Border-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical PG&E Topock-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical Please approve and forward to Dale Neuner Thank you 
forecast for socal demand/rec/storage.  Looks like they will need more gas at ehrenberg.(the swing receipt point) than 98 or 99. 
Griff, It is bidweek again.  I need to provide view only ID's to the two major publications that post the monthly indeces.  Please email an id and password to the following: Dexter Steis at Natural Gas Intelligence-	dexter@intelligencepress.com Liane Kucher at Inside Ferc-  lkuch@mh.com Bidweek is under way so it is critical that these id's are sent out asap. Thanks for your help, 
Jeff/Brenda, Please authorize and forward to Tara Sweitzer. Please set up the following with the ability to setup and manage products in stack manager: Steve South Tory Kuykendall Janie Tholt Frank Ermis Matt Lenhart Note:  The type of product these traders will be managing is less than 1 month physical in the west. Also please grant access & passwords to enable the above traders to execute book to book trades on EOL.  If possible restrict their execution authority to products in the first 3 months. Thank you 
Mary Received an email from you on 1/7, but there was no message.  Please try again. 
What did mary write?  Stage misses you?  I sent 2 emails. 
First one's free. So are the next thousand. You know it's true: Video games are addictive. Sure, we could trap you with a free game of Centipede, then kick up the price after you're hooked. But that's not how shockwave.com operates. Shockmachine -- the greatest thing since needle exchange -- is now free; so are the classic arcade games. Who needs quarters? Get Arcade Classics from shockwave.com, stick 'em in your Shockmachine and then play them offline anytime you want. http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/s.asp?H430297053X351629 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lick the Frog. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ You're not getting a date this Friday night. But you don't care. You've got a date with Frogger. This frog won't turn into a handsome prince(ss), but it's sure to bring back great memories of hopping through the arcade -- and this time, you can save your quarters for laundry. Which might increase your potential for a date on Saturday. http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/s.asp?H430297053X351630 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Business Meeting or Missile Command? You Decide. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Take it offline! No, it's not a horrible meeting with your boss - it's Missile Command. Shockmachine has a beautiful feature: you can play without being hooked to the Internet. Grab the game from shockwave.com, save it to your hard drive, and play offline! The missiles are falling. Are you ready to save the world? http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/s.asp?H430297053X351631 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Naomi, The two analysts that I have had contact with are Matt Lenhart  and Vishal Apte. Matt will be represented by Jeff Shankman. Vishal joined our group in October.  He was in the Power Trading Group for the first 9 months. I spoke to Jim Fallon and we agreed that he should be in the excellent category.  I just don't want Vishal to go unrepresented since he changed groups mid year. Call me with questions.(x37041) Phillip Allen 
Here is our forecast 
Outlook Migration Team@ENRON 05/11/2001 01:49 PM 
Current Notes User: To ensure that you experience a successful migration from Notes to Outlook, it is necessary to gather individual user information prior to your date of migration.  Please take a few minutes to completely fill out the following survey. Double Click on document to put it in ""Edit"" mode. When you finish, simply click on the 'Reply With History' button then hit 'Send'  Your survey will automatically be sent to the Outlook 2000 Migration Mailbox. Thank you. Outlook 2000 Migration Team ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- Full Name:        Phillip Allen Login ID:   pallen Extension:   37041 Office Location:  EB3210C What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both)   Both Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada)  IPAQ Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar? If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar?   Yes, Ina Rangel If yes, who? Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who? Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who? Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar? Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here: Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use: In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Let me know when you get the quotes from Pauline.  I am expecting to pay something in the $3,000 to $5,000 range.  I would like to see the quotes and a description of the work to be done.  It is my understanding that some rock will be removed and replaced with siding.  If they are getting quotes to put up new rock then we will need to clarify. Jacques is ready to drop in a dollar amount on the release.  If the negotiations stall, it seems like I need to go ahead and cut off the utilities.  Hopefully things will go smoothly. 
Jeff, Jacques Craig will draw up a release.  What is the status on the quote from Wade? 
Can you guys coordinate to make sure someone listens to this conference call each week.  Tara from the fundamental group was recording these calls when they happened every day. Phillip 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted Please forward to anyone on your team that wants updates on Western wholesale matters (should also give you an opportunity to raise state matters if you want to discuss). Jim 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted Please forward to anyone on your team that wants updates on Western wholesale matters (should also give you an opportunity to raise state matters if you want to discuss). Jim 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Traveling to have a business meeting takes the fun out of the trip. Especially if you have to prepare a presentation.  I would suggest holding the business plan meetings here then take a trip without any formal business meetings.  I would even try and get some honest opinions on whether a trip is even desired or necessary. As far as the business meetings, I think it would be more productive to try and stimulate discussions across the different groups about what is working and what is not.  Too often the presenter speaks and the others are quiet just waiting for their turn.   The meetings might be better if held in a round table discussion format. My suggestion for where to go is Austin.  Play golf and rent a ski boat and jet ski's.  Flying somewhere takes too much time. 
Tim, mike grigsby is having problems with accessing the west power site.  Can you please make sure he has an active password. Thank you, 
Reagan, Just wanted to give you an update.  I have changed the unit mix to include some 1 bedrooms and reduced the number of buildings to 12.  Kipp Flores is working on the construction drawings.  At the same time I am pursuing FHA financing.  Once the construction drawings are complete I will send them to you for a revised bid.  Your original bid was competitive and I am still attracted to your firm because of your strong local presence and contacts. 
Jim, Is there going to be a conference call or some type of weekly meeting about all the regulatory issues facing California this week?  Can you make sure the gas desk is included. 
- Full Name:        Phillip Allen Login ID:   pallen Extension:  3-7041 Office Location:  EB3210C What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both)  Both Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada)  IPAQ Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar?  NO If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar?  YES If yes, who?  INA RANGEL Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who?  NO Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who?  NO Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar?  YES, West Calendar Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here:  NO Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use:  NONE In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Have him send his resume to Karen Buckley in HR.  There is a new round of trading track interviews in May. 
Current Notes User: REASONS FOR USING OUTLOOK WEB ACCESS (OWA) 1. Once your mailbox has been migrated from Notes to Outlook, the Outlook client will be configured on your computer. After migration of your mailbox, you will not be able to send or recieve mail via Notes, and you will not be able to start using Outlook until it is configured by the Outlook Migration team the morning after your mailbox is migrated.  During this period, you can use Outlook Web Access (OWA) via your web browser (Internet Explorer 5.0) to read and send mail. PLEASE NOTE:  Your calendar entries, personal address book, journals, and To-Do entries imported from Notes will not be available until the Outlook client is configured on your desktop. 2. Remote access to your mailbox. After your Outlook client is configured, you can use Outlook Web Access (OWA) for remote access to your mailbox. PLEASE NOTE:  At this time, the OWA client is only accessible while connecting to the Enron network (LAN).  There are future plans to make OWA available from your home or when traveling abroad. HOW TO ACCESS OUTLOOK WEB ACCESS (OWA) Launch Internet Explorer 5.0, and in the address window type: http://nahou-msowa01p/exchange/john.doe Substitute ""john.doe"" with your first and last name, then click ENTER.  You will be prompted with a sign in box as shown below.  Type in ""corp/your user id"" for the user name and your NT password to logon to OWA and click OK.  You will now be able to view your mailbox. PLEASE NOTE:  There are some subtle differences in the functionality between the Outlook and OWA clients.  You will not be able to do many of the things in OWA that you can do in Outlook.  Below is a brief list of *some* of the functions NOT available via OWA: Features NOT available using OWA: -  Tasks -  Journal -  Spell Checker -  Offline Use -  Printing Templates -  Reminders -  Timed Delivery -  Expiration -  Outlook Rules -  Voting, Message Flags and Message Recall -  Sharing Contacts with others -  Task Delegation -  Direct Resource Booking -  Personal Distribution Lists QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS? If you have questions or concerns using the OWA client, please contact the Outlook 2000 question and answer Mailbox at: Outlook.2000@enron.com Otherwise, you may contact the Resolution Center at: 713-853-1411 Thank you, Outlook 2000 Migration Team 
Current Notes User: To ensure that you experience a successful migration from Notes to Outlook, it is necessary to gather individual user information prior to your date of migration.  Please take a few minutes to completely fill out the following survey.  When you finish, simply click on the 'Reply' button then hit 'Send' Your survey will automatically be sent to the Outlook 2000 Migration Mailbox. Thank you. Outlook 2000 Migration Team ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- Full Name: Login ID: Extension: Office Location: What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both) Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada) Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar? If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar? If yes, who? Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who? Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who? Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar? Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here: Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use: In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Alan, You should have received updated numbers from Keith Holst.  Call me if you did not receive them. 
Phillip, I got this request.  On the gas side, I think Kean/Lay need an update to a table you prepared for me a few months ago, which I've attached..  Can you oblige?  Thanks, Alan Comnes 
Alan, Steve has asked that you update the power point below so that it reflects all of the ""stupid regulatory/legislative decisions"" since the beginning of the year.  Ken wants to have this updated chart in his briefing book for next week's ""Ken Lay Tour"" to CA. He also wants a forward price curve for both gas and power in CA.  Can we get these three documents by Monday afternoon? 
Phillip, I got this request.  On the gas side, I think Kean/Lay need an update to a table you prepared for me a few months ago, which I've attached..  Can you oblige?  Thanks, Alan Comnes 
Alan, Steve has asked that you update the power point below so that it reflects all of the ""stupid regulatory/legislative decisions"" since the beginning of the year.  Ken wants to have this updated chart in his briefing book for next week's ""Ken Lay Tour"" to CA. He also wants a forward price curve for both gas and power in CA.  Can we get these three documents by Monday afternoon? 
Tim, Can you authorize access to the west power site for Keith Holtz.  He is our Southern California basis trader and is under a two year contract. On another note, is it my imagination or did the SARR website lower its forecast for McNary discharge during May.  It seems like the flows have been lowered into the 130 range and there are fewer days near 170.  Also the second half of April doesn't seem to have panned out as I expected.  The outflows stayed at 100-110 at McNary.  Can you email or call with some additional insight? Thank you, 
Gary, I have also been speaking to Johnnie Brown in San Antonio to be the general contractor.  According to Johnnie, I would not be pay any less buying from the factory versus purchasing the panels through him since my site is within his region.  Assuming this is true, I will work directly with him.  I believe he has sent you my plans.  They were prepared by Kipp Flores architects. Can you confirm that the price is the same direct from the factory or from the distributor?  If you have the estimates worked up for Johnnie will you please email them to me as well? Thank you for your time.  I am excited about potentially using your product. 
Wholesale Electric Markets 
Ray, Is there any detail on the gas cost proxy.  Which delivery points from which publication will be used?  Basically, can you help us get any clarification on the language ""the average daily cost of gas for all delivery points in California""? 
Andrea, After reviewing Bryan Hull's resume, I think he would be best suited for the trading track program.  Please forward his resume to Karen Buckley. 
Ned, Regarding the Waha storage, the west desk does not have a strong need for this storage but we are always willing to show a bid based on the current summer/winter spreads and cycling value.  The following assumptions were made to establish our bid:  5% daily injection capacity, 10% daily withdrawal capacity, 1% fuel (injection only), 0.01/MMBtu variable injection and withdrawal fees.  Also an undiscounted  June 01 to January 02 spread of $0.60 existed at the time of this bid. Bid for a 1 year storage contract beginning June 01 based on above assumptions:  $0.05/ MMBtu/Month ($0.60/Year).  Demand charges only. I am not sure if this is exactly what you need or not.  Please call or email with comments. Phillip Allen 
Phil,  I suspect that discussions/negotiations are taking place behind closed doors ""in smoke filled rooms"", if not directly between Commissioners then among FERC staffers.  Never say never, but I think it is highly unlikely that the final order will contain a fixed price cap.  I base this belief in large part on what I heard at a luncheon I attended yesterday afternoon at which the keynote speaker was FERC Chairman Curt Hebert.  Although the Chairman began his presentation by expressly stating that he would not comment or answer questions on pending proceedings before the Commission, Hebert had some enlightening comments which relate to price caps: Price caps are almost never the right answer Price Caps will have the effect of prolonging shortages Competitive choices for consumers is the right answer Any solution, however short term, that does not increase supply or reduce demand, is not acceptable Eight out of eleven western Governors oppose price caps, in that they would export California's problems to the West This is the latest intelligence I have on the matter, and it's a pretty strong anti- price cap position.  Of course, Hebert is just one Commissioner out of 3 currently on the Commission, but he controls the meeting agenda and if the draft order is not to his liking, the item could be bumped off the agenda.  Hope this info helps.  Ray Phillip K Allen@ECT 04/25/2001 02:28 PM 
Are there behind closed doors discussions being held prior to the meeting? Is there the potential for a surprise announcement of some sort of fixed price gas or power cap once the open meeting finally happens? 
Are there behind closed doors discussions being held prior to the meeting? Is there the potential for a surprise announcement of some sort of fixed 
Gary, Here is a photograph of a similar house.  The dimensions would be 56'Wide X 41' Deep for the living area.  In addition there will be a 6' deep two story porch across the entire back and 30' across the front.  A modification to the front will be the addition of a gable across 25' on the left side.  The living area will be brought forward under this gable to be flush with the front porch. I don't have my floor plan with me at work today, but will bring in tomorrow and fax you a copy. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 pallen@enron.com 
Mr. Allen - Per our phone conversation, please see the instructions below to get access to view FERC meetings.  Please advise if there are any problems, questions or concerns. Eric Benson Sr. Specialist Enron Government Affairs - The Americas 713-853-1711 ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
As long as you are configured to receive Real Video, you should be able to access the FERC meeting this Wednesday, November 8.  The instructions are below. 
Here is the URL address for the Capitol Connection.  You should be able to simply click on this URL below and it should come up for you.  (This is assuming your computer is configured for Real Video/Audio).  We will pay for the annual contract and bill your cost centers. You are connected for tomorrow as long as you have access to Real Video. http://www.capitolconnection.gmu.edu/ Instructions: Once into the Capitol Connection sight, click on FERC Click on first line (either ""click here"" or box) Dialogue box should require:  user name:  enron-y password:  fercnow Real Player will connect you to the meeting Expand your screen as you wish for easier viewing Adjust your sound as you wish 
Frank, The implied risk created by the san juan and rockies indeces being partially set after today is the same as the risk in a long futures position.  Whatever the risk was prior should not matter.  Since the rest of the books are very short price this should be a large offset.  If the VAR calculation does not match the company's true risk then it needs to be revised or adjusted. 
I just spoke to the insurance company.  They are going to cancel and prorate 
Griff, It is bidweek again.  I need to provide view only ID's to the two major publications that post the monthly indeces.  Please email an id and password to the following: Dexter Steis at Natural Gas Intelligence- dexter@intelligencepress.com Liane Kucher at Inside Ferc-  lkuch@mh.com Bidweek is under way so it is critical that these id's are sent out asap. Thanks for your help, 
Send his resume to Karen Buckley.  I believe there will be a full round of 
Have him send his resume to Karen Buckley in HR.  There is a new round of trading track interviews in May. 
Andrea, After reviewing Bryan Hull's resume, I think he would be best suited for the trading track program.  Please forward his resume to Karen Buckley. 
Johnnie, Thank you for meeting with me on Friday.  I left feeling very optimistic about the panel system.  I would like to find a way to incorporate the panels into the home design I showed you.  In order to make it feasible within my budget I am sure it will take several iterations.  The prospect of purchasing the panels and having your  framers install them may have to be considered. However, my first choice would be for you to be the general contractor. I realize you receive a number of calls just seeking information about this product with very little probability of a sale.  I just want to assure you that I am going to build this house in the fall and I would seriously consider using the panel system if it truly was only a slight increase in cost over stick built. Please email your cost estimates when complete. Thank you, 
Ina, Can you please forward the presentation to Mog. Phillip 
Chad, Call Ted Bland about the trading track program.  All the desks are trying to use this program to train analysts to be traders.  Your experience should help you in the process and make the risk rotation unnecessary. Unless you are dying to do another rotation is risk. 
Apartments, Phillip Allen 
How am I to send them the money for the silent second?  Regular mail, overnight, wire transfer?  I don't see how their bank will make the funds available by Friday unless I wire the money.  If that is what I need to do 
The topic will the the western natural gas market.  I may have overhead 
Johnnie, Thank you for meeting with me on Friday.  I left feeling very optimistic about the panel system.  I would like to find a way to incorporate the panels into the home design I showed you.  In order to make it feasible within my budget I am sure it will take several iterations.  The prospect of purchasing the panels and having your  framers install them may have to be considered.  However, my first choice would be for you to be the general contractor. I realize you receive a number of calls just seeking information about this product with very little probability of a sale.  I just want to assure you that I am going to build this house in the fall and I would seriously consider using the panel system if it truly was only a slight increase in cost over stick built. Please email your cost estimates when complete. Thank you, 
Enron Wholesale Services (EES Gas Desk) Approved Trader List: Name    Title    Region  Basis Only Black, Don   Vice President   Any Desk Hewitt, Jess   Director    All Desks Vanderhorst, Barry  Director    East, West Shireman, Kris   Director    West Des Champs, Joe  Director    Central Reynolds, Roger   Director    West Migliano, Andy    Manager   Central Wiltfong, Jim   Manager   All Desks Barker, Jim   Sr, Specialist   East Fleming, Matt   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Tate, Paul   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Driscoll, Marde   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Arnold, Laura   Sr. Specialist   Central - basis only Blaine, Jay   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Guerra, Jesus   Sr. Specialist   Central - basis only Bangle, Christina  Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Smith, Rhonda   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Boettcher, Amanda  Sr. Specialist   Central - basis only Pendegraft, Sherry  Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Ruby Robinson   Specialist   West - basis only Diza, Alain   Specialist   East - basis only Monday, April 16, 2001 Jess P. Hewitt Revised Approved Trader List.doc 
The insurance company is: Central Insurance Agency, Inc 6000 N., Lamar P.O. Box 15427 Austin, TX 78761-5427 Policy #CBI420478 Contact:  Jeanette Peterson (512)451-6551 The actual policy is signed by Vista Insurance Partners. Please try and schedule the appraiser for sometime after 1 p.m. so my Dad can walk him around. I will be out of town on Tuesday.  What else do we need to get done before closing? 
Here is a simplistic spreadsheet.  I didn't drop in the new generation yet, but even without the new plants it looks like Q3 is no worse than last year. Can you take a look and get back to me with the bullish case? thanks, Phillip 
Here is a simplistic spreadsheet.  I didn't drop in the new generation yet, but even without the new plants it looks like Q3 is no worse than last year. Can you take a look and get back to me with the bullish case? thanks, Phillip 
I will try and get my dad to take the appraiser into a couple of units.  Let me know the day and time. 
Larry, It sounds like Claudia and Jacques are almost finished with the documents. There is one item of which I was unsure.  Was an environmental report prepared before the original purchase?  If yes, shouldn't it be listed as an asset of the partnership and your costs be recovered? 
Lucy, The spreadsheet looks fine to me. 
Bruce, Thank you for your bid.  I have decided on a floor plan.  I am going to have an architect in Austin draw the plans and help me work up a detailed specification list.  I will send you that detailed plan and spec list when complete for a final bid.  Probably in early to mid June. 
Jeff, Jacques Craig will draw up a release.  What is the status on the quote from Wade? 
Lucy, Here is the rentroll from last friday. The closing was to be this Thursday but it has been delayed until Friday April 20th.  If you can stay on until April 20th that would be helpful.  If you have made other commitments I understand. Gary is planning to put an A/C in #35. You can give out my work numer (713) 853-7041 
Jed, Thanks for the response. 
The following are the prices you requested.  Unfortunately we are unwilling to transact at these levels due to the current market volatility, but you can consider these accurate market prices: May01-Oct01 Socal/Juan offer:  8.70 usd/mmbtu Apr02-Oct02 Socal/Juan offer:  3.53 usd/mmbtu Our present value mark to market calculations for these trades are as follows: May01-Oct01 30,000/day @ 0.5975 =  $44,165,200 Apr02-Oct02 @  0.60 =  $5,920,980 Apr02-Oct02 @  0.745 =  $5,637,469 Apr02-Oct02 @  0.55 =  $3,006,092 If you have any other questions call: (203) 355-5059 Jed Hershey **************************************************************************** This e-mail contains privileged attorney-client communications and/or confidential information, and is only for the use by the intended recipient. Receipt by an unintended recipient does not constitute a waiver of any applicable privilege. Reading, disclosure, discussion, dissemination, distribution or copying of this information by anyone other than the intended recipient or his or her employees or agents is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this communication in error, please immediately notify us and delete the original material from your computer. Sempra Energy Trading Corp. (SET) is not the same company as SDG&E or SoCalGas, the utilities owned by SET's parent company.  SET is not regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission and you do not have to buy SET's products and services to continue to receive quality regulated service from the utilities. **************************************************************************** 
Reagan, I sent you an email last week stating that I would be in San Marcos on Friday, April 13th.  However, my closing has been postponed.  As I mentioned I am going to have Cary Kipp draw the plans for the residence and I will get back in touch with you once he is finished. Regarding the multifamily project, I am going to work with a project manager from San Antonio.  For my first development project, I feel more comfortable with their experience obtaining FHA financing.  We are working with Kipp Flores to finalize the floor plans and begin construction drawings.  Your bid for the construction is competive with other construction estimates.  I am still attracted to your firm as the possible builder due to your strong local relationships.  I will get back in touch with you once we have made the final determination on unit mix and site plan. 
Jacques, The amounts needed to fill in the blanks on Exhibit ""B"" are as follows: Kipp Flores-Total Contract was $23,600 but $2,375 was paid and only $21,225 is outstanding. Kohutek- $2,150 Cuatro- $37,800 George & Larry paid $3,500 for the appraisal and I agreed to reimburse this amount. The total cash that Keith and I will pay the Sellers is $5,875 ($3,500 appraisal and $2,375 engineering).    I couldn't find any reference to this cash consideration to be paid by the buyers. Let me know if I need to do anything else before you can forward this to the sellers to be executed. Phillip 
John, Regarding the employment agreement, Mike declined without a counter.  Keith said he would sign for $75K cash/$250 equity.  I still believe Frank should receive the same signing incentives as Keith. 
Thanks for the response.  I think you are right that engaging an architect is the next logical step.  I had already contacted Cary Kipp and sent him the floor plan. He got back to me yesterday with his first draft.  He took my plan and improved it.  I am going to officially engage Cary to draw the plans.  While he works on those I wanted to try and work out a detailed specification list.  Also, I would like to visit a couple of homes that you have built and speak to 1 or 2 satisfied home owners.  I will be in San Marcos on Friday April 13th.  Are there any homes near completion that I could walk through that day?  Also can you provide some references? Once I have the plans and specs, I will send them to you so you can adjust your bid. 
Do you have a distribution list to send this to all the traders. Phillip 
Fred/Phillip/Scott:  We are having a happy hour at Sambuca this Thursday, please be our guests and invite anyone on your desks that would be interested in meeting some of the new gas desk team. http://www.americangreetings.com/pickup.pd?i=172082367&m=1891 Thank you, Jess 
Ina, Can you please forward the presentation to Mog. Phillip 
Jacques, The assets and liabilities that we are willing to assume are listed below: Assets: Land Preliminary Architecture Design-Kipp Flores Architects Preliminary Engineering-Cuatro Consultants, Ltd. Soils Study-Kohutek Engineering & Testing, Inc. Appraisal-Atrium Real Estate Services Liabilities: Note to Phillip Allen Outstanding Invoices to Kipp Flores, Cuatro, and Kohutek Additional Consideration or Concessions Forgive interest due Reimburse $3,500 for appraisal and $2,375 for partial payment to engineer Let me know if you need more detail. 
The Enron Center garage will be opening very soon. Employees who work for business units that are scheduled to move to the new building and currently park in the Allen Center or Met garages are being offered a parking space in the new Enron Center garage. This is the only offer you will receive during the initial migration to the new garage. Spaces will be filled on a first come first served basis. The cost for the new garage will be the same as Allen Center garage which is currently $165.00 per month, less the company subsidy, leaving a monthly employee cost of $94.00. If you choose not to accept this offer at this time, you may add your name to the Enron Center garage waiting list at a later day and offers will be made as spaces become available. The Saturn Ring  that connects the garage and both buildings will not be opened until summer 2001. All initial parkers will have to use the street level entrance to Enron Center North until Saturn Ring access is available. Garage stairways next to the elevator lobbies at each floor may be used as an exit in the event of elevator trouble. If you are interested in accepting this offer, please reply via email to Parking and Transportation as soon as you reach a decision. Following your email, arrangements will be made for you to turn in your old parking card and receive a parking transponder along with a new information packet for the new garage. The Parking and Transportation desk may be reached via email at Parking and Transportation/Corp/Enron or 713-853-7060  with any questions. (You must enter & exit on Clay St. the first two weeks, also pedestrians, will have to use the garage stairwell located on the corner of Bell & Smith.) 
Jacques I am out of the office for the rest of the week.  Have you ever seen anyone miss as much work as I have in the last 6 weeks?  I assure you this is unusual for me. Hopefully we can sign some documents on Monday.  Call me on my cell phone if you need me. 
Reagan, I am still reviewing the numbers but here are some initial thoughts. Are you proposing a cost plus contract with no cap? What role would you play in obtaining financing?  Any experience with FHA 221(d) loans? Although your fees are lower than George and Larry I am still getting market quotes lower yet.  I have received estimates structured as follows: 5% - onsite expenses, supervision, clean up, equipment 2%- overhead 4%- profit I just wanted to give you this initial feedback.  I have also attached an extremely primitive spreadsheet to outline the project.  As you can see even reducing the builders fees to the numbers above the project would only generate $219,194 of cash flow for a return of 21%.  I am not thrilled about such a low return.  I think I need to find a way to get the total cost down to $10,500,000 which would boost the return to 31%.  Any ideas? I realize that you are offering significant development experience plus you local connections.  I am not discounting those services.   I will be out of the office for the rest of the week, but I will call you early next week. Phillip 
Cary, Here is the picture of the house I have in mind.  I was going for a simple farmhouse style to  place on 5 acres near Wimberley. A few points that might not be obvious from the plans are: There will be a double porch across the back just like the front No dormers (Metal roof) 1/2 bath under stairs Overall dimensions are 55 by 40 What I am looking for is a little design help in the kitchen.  More cabinets, maybe a different shaped island, and a way to enlarge the pantry. Reagan suggested that I find a way to make the exterior more attractive.  I want to keep a simple roof line to avoid leaks, but I was thinking about bringing the left side forward in the front of the house and place 1 gable in the front. That might look good if the exterior was stone and stucco.  Also the front porch would be smaller. I have 3 bids from builders all around $325,000.  I am ready to go ahead and have the plans done so I can spec out all the finishings and choose a builder. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to do the work.  As I mentioned my alternative is $0.60/ft.  I thought that since I had a such a detailed sketch, you might consider the job for less than the $6,000 that Reagan allowed. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 
Cary, Here is the picture of the house I have in mind.  I was going for a simple farmhouse style to  place on 5 acres near Wimberley. A few points that might not be obvious from the plans are: There will be a double porch across the back just like the front No dormers (Metal roof) 1/2 bath under stairs Overall dimensions are 55 by 40 What I am looking for is a little design help in the kitchen.  More cabinets, maybe a different shaped island, and a way to enlarge the pantry. Reagan suggested that I find a way to make the exterior more attractive.  I want to keep a simple roof line to avoid leaks, but I was thinking about bringing the left side forward in the front of the house and place 1 gable in the front. That might look good if the exterior was stone and stucco.  Also the front porch would be smaller. I have 3 bids from builders all around $325,000.  I am ready to go ahead and have the plans done so I can spec out all the finishings and choose a builder. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to do the work.  As I mentioned my alternative is $0.60/ft.  I thought that since I had a such a detailed sketch, you might consider the job for less than the $6,000 that Reagan allowed. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 
(See attached file: F828FA00.PDF) (See attached file: F828FA00.PDF) - F828FA00.PDF 
------Transcript of session follows ------- scsatkfa@caprock.net The user's email name is not found. Received: from postmaster.enron.com ([192.152.140.9]) by mail1.caprock.net with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.5.1877.197.19);  Thu, 29 Mar 2001 09:36:49 -0600 Received: from mailman.enron.com (mailman.enron.com [192.168.189.66]) by postmaster.enron.com (8.8.8/8.8.8/postmaster-1.00) with ESMTP id PAB09150 for <scsatkfa@caprock.net>; Thu, 29 Mar 2001 15:42:03 GMT 
Cary, Here is the picture of the house I have in mind.  I was going for a simple farmhouse style to  place on 5 acres near Wimberley. A few points that might not be obvious from the plans are: There will be a double porch across the back just like the front No dormers (Metal roof) 1/2 bath under stairs Overall dimensions are 55 by 40 What I am looking for is a little design help in the kitchen.  More cabinets, maybe a different shaped island, and a way to enlarge the pantry.    Reagan suggested that I find a way to make the exterior more attractive.  I want to keep a simple roof line to avoid leaks, but I was thinking about bringing the left side forward in the front of the house and place 1 gable in the front.  That might look good if the exterior was stone and stucco.  Also the front porch would be smaller. I have 3 bids from builders all around $325,000.  I am ready to go ahead and have the plans done so I can spec out all the finishings and choose a builder. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to do the work.  As I mentioned my alternative is $0.60/ft.  I thought that since I had a such a detailed sketch, you might consider the job for less than the $6,000 that Reagan allowed. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 
Chad, Call Ted Bland about the trading track program.  All the desks are trying to use this program to train analysts to be traders.  Your experience should help you in the process and make the risk rotation unnecessary. Unless you are dying to do another rotation is risk. 
Reagan, Thank you for the quick response on the bid for the residence.  Below is a list of questions on the specs: 1.  Is the framing Lumber #2 yellow pine?  Wouldn't fir or spruce warp less and cost about the same? 2.  What type of floor joist would be used?  2x12 or some sort of factory joist? 3.  What type for roof framing?  On site built rafters? or engineered trusses? 4.  Are you planning for insulation between floors to dampen sound?  What type of insulation in floors and ceiling?  Batts or blown?  Fiberglass or Cellulose? 5.  Any ridge venting or other vents (power or turbine)? 6. Did you bid for interior windows to have trim on 4 sides?  I didn't know the difference between an apron and a stool. 7.  Do you do anything special under the upstairs tile floors to prevent cracking?  Double plywood or hardi board underlay? 8.  On the stairs, did you allow for a bannister?  I was thinking a partial one out of iron.  Only about 5 feet. 9.  I did not label it on the plan, but I was intending for a 1/2 bath under the stairs. A pedestal sink would probably work. 10.  Are undermount sinks different than drop ins?  I was thinking undermount stainless in kitchen and undermount cast iron in baths. 11.  1 or 2 A/C units?  I am assuming 2. 12.  Prewired for sound indoors and outdoors? 13.  No door and drawer pulls on any cabinets or just bath cabinets? 14.  Exterior porches included in bid?  Cedar decking on upstairs?  Iron railings? 15.  What type of construction contract would you use?  Fixed price except for change orders? I want to get painfully detailed with the specs before I make a decision but this is a start.  I think I am ready to get plans drawn up.  I am going to call Cary Kipp to see about setting up a design meeting to see if I like his ideas. Phillip I 
Larry, Jacques has sent a document to Claudia for your review.  Just dropping you a line to confirm that you have seen it. 
Jacques, Would it be ok if I signed new consulting agreements with the engineer and architect?  They have both sent me agreements.  The only payment that George and Larry had made was $2,350 to the architect.  I have written personal checks in the amounts of $25,000 to the architect and $13,950 to the engineer. I was wondering if the prior work even needs to be listed as an asset of the partnership. I would like for the agreements with these consultants to be with the partnership not with me.  Should I wait until the partnership has been conveyed to sign in the name of the partnership. Let me know what you think. Phillip 
Greg, Here are my comments and questions on the cost estimates: Cost per square foot seem too low for construction $33.30/sf (gross)/$36/sf (rentable) What do the cost for On-Site General Requirements ( $299,818) represent? Will you review the builders profit and fees with me again?  You mentioned 2% overhead, 3 %  ???, and 5% profit. Why is profit only 4%? Why are the architect fees up to $200K.  I thought they would be $80K. What is the $617K of profit allowance?  Is that the developers profit to boost loan amount but not a real cost? Total Closing and Application costs of 350K?  That seems very high?  Who receives the 2 points?  How much will be sunk costs if FHA declines us? Where is your 1%?  Are you receiving one of the points on the loan? What is the status on the operating pro forma?  My back of the envelope puts NOI at $877K assuming 625/1BR, 1300/3BR, 950/2BR, 5% vacancy, and 40% expenses.  After debt service that would only leave $122K.  The coverage would only be 1.16. Talk to you this afternoon. Phillip 
Grif, Please provide a temporary id Phillip 
Hi Phillip, It's that time of month again, if you could be so kind. Thanks, Dexter ***************************** Dexter Steis Executive Publisher Intelligence Press, Inc. 22648 Glenn Drive Suite 305 Sterling, VA 20164 tel: (703) 318-8848 fax: (703) 318-0597 http://intelligencepress.com http://www.gasmart.com ****************************** At 09:57 AM 1/26/01 -0600, you wrote: >Dexter, > >You should receive a guest id shortly. > >Phillip 
John, Mike is fine with signing a new contract (subject to reading the terms, of course).  He prefers to set strikes over a 3 month period.  His existing contract pays him a retention payment of $55,000 in the next week.  He still wants to receive this payment. 
Reagan, Here is a photograhph of the house I have in mind. Specific features include: Stained and scored concrete floors downstairs Wood stairs Two story porches on front and rear Granite counters in kitchens and baths Tile floors in upstairs baths Metal roof w/ gutters (No dormers) Cherry or Maple cabinets in kitchen & baths Solid wood interior doors Windows fully trimmed Crown molding in downstairs living areas 2x6 wall on west side Undecided items include: Vinyl or Aluminum windows Wood or carpet in upstairs bedrooms and game room Exterior stucco w/ stone apron and window trim  or rough white brick on 3-4 sides I have faxed you the floor plans.  The dimensions may be to small to read. The overall dimensions are 55' X 40'.  For a total of 4400 sq ft under roof, but only 3800 of livable space after you deduct the garage. Are there any savings in the simplicity of the design?  It is basically a box with a simple roof line.  Call me if you have any questions. 713-853-7041. Phillip 
Apartments, Phillip Allen 
Greg, Something that I forgot to ask you.  Do you know if Hugo is planning to replatt using an administrative process which I understand is quicker than the full replatting process of 3 weeks? Also let me know about the parking.  The builder in San Marcos believed the plan only had 321 parking spots but would require 382 by code.  The townhomes across the street have a serious parking problem.  They probably planned for the students to park in the garages but instead they are used as extra rooms. 
Jacques, The agreement looks fine.   My only comment is that George and Larry might object to the language that ""the bank that was requested to finance the construction of the project declined to make the loan based on the high costs of the construction of the Project"".   Technically, that bank lowered the loan amount based on lower estimates of rents which altered the amount of equity that would be required. Did I loan them $1,300,000?  I thought it was less. Regarding Exhibit A, the assets include:  the land, architectural plans, engineering completed, appraisal, and soils study.   Most of these items are in a state of partial completion by the consultants.  I have been speaking directly to the architect, engineer, and soils engineer.   I am unclear on what is the best way to proceed with these consultants. The obligations should include the fees owed to the consultants above.  Do we need to list balances due or just list the work completed as an asset  and give consideration of $5,875 for the cash paid to the engineer and appraisor. 
Hope this helps!  This is the current gas desk list that I have in my personal address book.  Call me with any questions. Erika GROUP: East Desk Basics: Group name:	East Desk Group type:	Multi-purpose Description: Members:	Matthew B Fleming/HOU/EES James R Barker/HOU/EES Barend VanderHorst/HOU/EES Jay Blaine/HOU/EES Paul Tate/HOU/EES Alain Diza/HOU/EES Rhonda Smith/HOU/EES Christina Bangle/HOU/EES Sherry Pendegraft/HOU/EES Marde L Driscoll/HOU/EES Daniel Salinas/HOU/EES Sharon Hausinger/HOU/EES Joshua Bray/HOU/EES James Wiltfong/HOU/EES Owners:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Administrators:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Foreign directory sync allowed:	Yes GROUP: West Desk Basics: Group name:	West Desk Group type:	Multi-purpose Description: Members:	Jesus Guerra/HOU/EES Monica Roberts/HOU/EES Laura R Arnold/HOU/EES Amanda Boettcher/HOU/EES C Kyle Griffin/HOU/EES Jess Hewitt/HOU/EES Artemio Muniz/HOU/EES Eugene Zeitz/HOU/EES Brandon Whittaker/HOU/EES Roland Aguilar/HOU/EES Ruby Robinson/HOU/EES Roger Reynolds/HOU/EES David Coolidge/HOU/EES Joseph Des Champs/HOU/EES Kristann Shireman/HOU/EES Owners:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Administrators:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Foreign directory sync allowed:	Yes 
Steve, 
Larry, Jacques has been working with Claudia.  I will check his progress this morning and let you know. 
Greg, just a note to let you know I will be out of the office Wed(3/21) until Thurs(3/23).  The kids are on spring break.  I will be in San Marcos and you can reach me on my cell phone 713-410-4679 or email pallen70@hotmail.com. I was planning on stopping by to see Hugo Elizondo on Thursday to drop off a check and give him the green light to file for replatting.  What will change if we want to try and complete the project in phases.  Does he need to change what he is going to submit to the city. I spoke to Gordon Kohutek this morning.  He was contracted to complete the soils study.  He says he will be done with his report by the end of the week.  I don't know who needs this report.  I told Gordon you might call to inquire about what work he performed. His number is 512-930-5832. We spoke on the phone about most of these issues. Talk to you later. 
Jacques, Here is Larry Lewter's response to my request for more documentation to support the $15,000.  As you will read below, it is no longer an issue.  I think that was the last issue to resolve. Phillip 
Ina, Can you help me approve this request? Phillip 
This request has been pending your approval for  9 days.  Please click http://itcapps.corp.enron.com/srrs/auth/emailLink.asp?ID=000000000021442&Page= Approval to review and act upon this request. Request ID          : 000000000021442 Request Create Date : 3/2/01 8:27:00 AM Requested For       : mike.grigsby@enron.com Resource Name       : Market Data Bloomberg Resource Type       : Applications 
Jacques, Still trying to close the loop on the $15,000 of extensions.  Assuming that it is worked out today or tomorrow, I would like to get whatever documents need to be completed to convey the partnership done.  I need to work with the engineer and architect to get things moving.  I am planning on  writing a personal check to the engineer while I am setting up new accounts.  Let me know if there is a reason I should not do this. Thanks for all your help so far.  Between your connections and expertise in structuring the loan, you saved us from getting into a bad deal. 
Larrry, I realize you are disappointed about the project.  It is not my desire for you to be left with out of pocket expenses.  The only item from your list that I need further clarification is the $15,000 worth of extensions.  You mentioned that this was applied to the cost of the land and it actually represents your cash investment in the land.  I agree that you should be refunded any cash investment.  My only request is that you help me locate this amount on the closing statement or on some other document. 
Jacques, I think we reached an agreement with George and Larry to pick up the items of value and not pay any fees for their time.  It looks as if we will be able to use everything they have done (engineering, architecture, survey, appraisal).  One point that is unclear is they claim that the $15,000 in extensions that they paid was applied to the purchase price of the land like earnest money would be applied.  I looked at the closing statements and I didn't see $15,000 applied against the purchase price.  Can you help clear this up. Assuming we clear up the $15,000, we need to get the property released. Keith and I are concerned about taking over the Bishop Corner partnership and the risk that there could be undisclosed liabilities.  On the other hand, conveyance of the partnership would be a time and money saver if it was clean.  What is your inclination? Call as soon as you have a chance to review. 
Let's talk to Matt about the forecast sheets for Socal and PG&E.  He needs to work on the TW sheet as well.   Also, I would like him to create a sheet on pipeline expansions and their rates and then tie in the daily curves for the desk to use. Mike 
Lucy, Here is the rentroll. My only questions are about #18, #25, and #37 missed rent.  Any special reasons? It looks like there are five vacancies #2,12,20a,35,40.  If you want to run an ad in the paper with a $50 discount that is fine. I will write you a letter of recommendation.  When do you need it?  You can use me as a reference.  In the next two weeks we should really have a good idea whether the sale is going through. 
I also need to know the base salaries of Jay Reitmeyer and Monique Sanchez. 
FYI Western Price Survey Contacts Cal-ISO's declaration of Stage Two alert this morning was triggered in part by decision of Bonneville Power Administration to cease hour-to-hour sales into California of between 600 MW and 1,000 MW that it had been making for the past week. According to BPA, it had excess energy to sell as a result of running water to meet biological opinion flow standards, but it has stopped doing so in order to allow reservoirs to fill from runoff. The agency said it had been telling California's Department of Water Resources that the sales could cease at any time, and this morning they ended. Cal-ISO reported about 1,600 MW less imports today than yesterday, so it appears other sellers have also cut back. Yesterday, PowerEx said it was not selling into California because of concerns about its water reserves. BPA said it is still sending exchange energy into California, however. More details, if available, will be included in the Friday edition of the Western Price Survey and in California Energy Markets newsletter. 
Thanks for the information.  It would be helpful if you would send the detailed worksheet that you mentioned. I am surprised to hear that the only restricted shares left are the ones granted this January.  I have always elected to defer any distributions of restricted stock.  I believe I selected the minimum amount required to be kept in enron stock (50%).   Are you saying that all the previous grants have fully vested and been distributed to my deferral account? Thank you for looking into this issue. 
(See attached file: outline.doc) (See attached file: MAPTTRA.xls) (Sample checklist of items needed for closing.  We have received some of the items to date) (See attached file: Checklist.doc) - outline.doc - MAPTTRA.xls - Checklist.doc 
Lucy, Somehow my email account lost the rentroll you sent me on Tuesday.  Please resend it and I will roll it for this week this morning. 
Jeff, I am in the office today.  Any isssues to deal with for the stagecoach? 
[IMAGE][IMAGE]??????????? ??????????? 8511 Horseshoe Ledge, Austin, TX? 78730-2840 Telephone (512) 338-1119? Fax(512)338-1103 E-Mail? cbpres@austin.rr.com ? ? ? ? March 13, 2001? Phillip Allen Keith Holst ENRON 1400 Smith Street Houston, TX? 77002-7361 
Dear Phillip and Keith: We are prepared to sell Bishops Corner, Ltd. for reimbursement of our cash expenditures; compensation for our management services and your assumption of all note obligations and design contracts.? As shown on the attached summary table, cash expenditures total $21,196 and existing contracts to the architect, civil engineer, soils testing company, and appraisal total $67,050.? The due on these contracts is $61,175, of which current unpaid invoices due total $37,325. Acting in good faith, we have invested an enormous amount of time into this project for more than five months and have completed most of the major design and other pre-construction elements.? As it is a major project for a firm of our size, it was given top priority with other projects being delayed or rejected, and we are now left with no project to pursue.? Two methods for valuing this development management are 1) based on a percentage of the minimum $1.4MM fee we were to have earned and 2) based on your prior valuation of our time.? For the first, we feel that at least 25%, or $350,000, of the minimum $1.4MM fee has been earned to date.? For the second, in your prior correspondence you valued our time at $500,000 per year, which would mean this period was worth $208,333.? Either of these valuations seem quite fair and reasonable, especially as neither includes the forfeit of our 40% interest in the project worth $0.8--$1.2MM. ?However, in the hope that we can maintain a good relationship with the prospect of future projects, we are willing to accept only a small monthly fee of $15,000 per month to cover a portion of our direct time and overhead.? As shown in the attached table, this fee, plus cash outlays and less accrued interest brings the total net buyout to $78,946.? We still believe that this project needs the professional services that we offer and have provided.? However, if you accept the terms of this buyout offer, which we truly feel is quite fair and reasonable, then, we are prepared to be bought out and leave this extraordinary project to you both.? If this is your choice, either contact us, or have your attorney contact our attorney, Claudia Crocker, no later than Friday of this week.? The attorneys can then draft whatever minimal documents are necessary for the transfer of the Bishops Corner, Ltd. Partnership to you following receipt of the buyout amount and assumption of the outstanding professional design contracts. Thank you. ? Sincerely, [IMAGE] ? ? ? George W. Richards President P.S.????? Copies of contracts will be forwarded upon acceptance of buyout. ? 
Here is the buyout spreadsheet again with a slight tweak in the format.  The summary  presents the numbers as only $1400 in concessions. 
Gentlemen, Today I finally received some information on the status of the work done to date.  I spoke to Hugo Alexandro at Cuatro Consultants.  The property is still in two parcels.  Hugo has completed a platt to combine into one  lot and is ready to submit it to the city of San Marcos.  He has also completed a topographical survey and a tree survey.  In addition, he has begun to coordinate with the city on the replatting and a couple of easements on the smaller parcel, as well as, beginning the work on the grading.  Hugo is going to fax me a written letter of the scope of work he has been engaged to complete.  The total cost of his services are estimated at $38,000 of which $14,000 are due now for work completed. We are trying to resolve the issues of outstanding work and bills incurred by the original developer so we can obtain the title to the land.  If we can continue to use Cuatro then it would be one less point of contention.  Hugo's number is 512-295-8052.  I thought you might want to contact him directly and ask him some questions.  I spoke to him about the possibility of your call and he was fine with that. Now we are going to try and determine if any of the work performed by Kipp Flores can be used. Keith and I appreciate you meeting with us on Sunday.  We left very optimistic about the prospect of working with you on this project. Call me with feedback after you speak to Hugo or with any other ideas about moving this project forward. 
Here is the buyout spreadsheet again with a slight tweak in the format.  The summary  presents the numbers as only $1400 in concessions. 
Jacques, George finally sent me some information.  Please look over his email.  He wants us to buy him out.  Keith and I think this is a joke. We still need to speak to his engineer and find out about his soil study to determine if it has any value going forward.  I don't believe the architect work will be of any use to us.  I don't think they deserve any compensation for their time due to the fact that intentional or not the project they were proposing was unsupportable by the market. My version of a buyout is attached. I need your expert advise.  I am ready to offer my version or threaten to foreclose.  Do they have a case that they are due money for their time? Since their cost and fees didn't hold up versus the market and we didn't execute a contract, I wouldn't think they would stand a chance.  There isn't any time to waste so I want to respond to their offer asap. Call me with your thoughts. Phillip 
[IMAGE][IMAGE]??????????? ??????????? 8511 Horseshoe Ledge, Austin, TX? 78730-2840 Telephone (512) 338-1119? Fax(512)338-1103 E-Mail? cbpres@austin.rr.com ? ? ? ? March 13, 2001? Phillip Allen Keith Holst ENRON 1400 Smith Street Houston, TX? 77002-7361 
Dear Phillip and Keith: We are prepared to sell Bishops Corner, Ltd. for reimbursement of our cash expenditures; compensation for our management services and your assumption of all note obligations and design contracts.? As shown on the attached summary table, cash expenditures total $21,196 and existing contracts to the architect, civil engineer, soils testing company, and appraisal total $67,050.? The due on these contracts is $61,175, of which current unpaid invoices due total $37,325. Acting in good faith, we have invested an enormous amount of time into this project for more than five months and have completed most of the major design and other pre-construction elements.? As it is a major project for a firm of our size, it was given top priority with other projects being delayed or rejected, and we are now left with no project to pursue.? Two methods for valuing this development management are 1) based on a percentage of the minimum $1.4MM fee we were to have earned and 2) based on your prior valuation of our time.? For the first, we feel that at least 25%, or $350,000, of the minimum $1.4MM fee has been earned to date.? For the second, in your prior correspondence you valued our time at $500,000 per year, which would mean this period was worth $208,333.? Either of these valuations seem quite fair and reasonable, especially as neither includes the forfeit of our 40% interest in the project worth $0.8--$1.2MM. ?However, in the hope that we can maintain a good relationship with the prospect of future projects, we are willing to accept only a small monthly fee of $15,000 per month to cover a portion of our direct time and overhead.? As shown in the attached table, this fee, plus cash outlays and less accrued interest brings the total net buyout to $78,946.? We still believe that this project needs the professional services that we offer and have provided.? However, if you accept the terms of this buyout offer, which we truly feel is quite fair and reasonable, then, we are prepared to be bought out and leave this extraordinary project to you both.? If this is your choice, either contact us, or have your attorney contact our attorney, Claudia Crocker, no later than Friday of this week.? The attorneys can then draft whatever minimal documents are necessary for the transfer of the Bishops Corner, Ltd. Partnership to you following receipt of the buyout amount and assumption of the outstanding professional design contracts. Thank you. ? Sincerely, [IMAGE] ? ? ? George W. Richards President P.S.????? Copies of contracts will be forwarded upon acceptance of buyout. ? 
Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions.  Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. - 1494 How To File.pdf 
George, I didn't receive the information on work completed or started.  Please send it this morning. We haven't discussed how to proceed with the land.  The easiest treatment would be just to deed it to us.  However, it might be more advantageous to convey the partnership. Also, I would like to speak to Hugo today.  I didn't find a Quattro Engineering in Buda.  Can you put me in contact with him. Talk to you later. 
Let's have Matt start on the following: Database for hourly storage activity on Socal.  Begin forecasting hourly and daily activity by backing out receipts, using ISO load actuals and backing out real time imports to get in state gen numbers for gas consumption, and then using temps to estimate core gas load.  Back testing once he gets database created should help him forecast core demand. Update Socal and PG&E forecast sheets.  Also, break out new gen by EPNG and TW pipelines. Mike 
Lucy, Here is a rentroll for this week. What is the outstanding balance on #1.  It looks like 190 + 110(this week)= 300.  I don't think we should make him pay late fees if can't communicate clearly. #2 still owe deposit? #9  What day will she pay and is she going to pay monthly or biweekly. Have a good weekend.  I will talk to you next week. In about two weeks we should know for sure if these buyers are going to buy the property.  I will keep you informed. 
Enron Wholesale Services (EES Gas Desk) Approved Trader List: Name				Title				Region		Basis Only Black, Don			Vice President			Any Desk Hewitt, Jess			Director				All Desks Vanderhorst, Barry		Director				East, West Shireman, Kris			Director				West Des Champs, Joe		Director				Central Reynolds, Roger 		Director				West Migliano, Andy 			Manager			Central Wiltfong, Jim			Manager			All Desks Barker, Jim			Sr, Specialist			East Fleming, Matt			Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Tate, Paul			Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Driscoll, Marde			Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Arnold, Laura			Sr. Specialist			Central - basis only Blaine, Jay			Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Guerra, Jesus			Sr. Specialist			Central - basis only Bangle, Christina		Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Smith, Rhonda			Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Boettcher, Amanda		Sr. Specialist			Central - basis only Pendegraft, Sherry		Sr. Specialist			East - basis only Ruby Robinson			Specialist			West - basis only Diza, Alain			Specialist			East - basis only Monday, April 16, 2001 Jess P. Hewitt Revised Approved Trader List.doc 
George, Thank you for the opportunity to review your financing request for the Sagewood Phase II project.  Upon receipt of all the requested information regarding the project, we completed somewhat of a due diligence on the market.  There are a number of concerns which need to be addressed prior to the Bank moving forward on the transaction.  First, the pro-forma rental rates, when compared on a Bedroom to Bedroom basis, are high relative to the market.   We adjusted pro-forma downward to match the market rates and the rates per bedroom we are acheiving on the existing Sagewood project.  Additionally, there are about 500+ units coming on-line within the next 12 months in the City of San Marcos, this, we believe will causes some downward rent pressures which can have a serious effect on an over leveraged project.  We have therefore adjusted the requested loan amount to $8,868,000. I have summarized our issues as follows: 1.  Pro-forma rental rates were adjusted downward to market as follows: Pro-Forma                           Bank's Adjustment Unit           Unit Rent Rent/BR    Unit Rent      Rent/BR 2 BR/2.5 BA         $1,150          $575           $950           $475 3 BR/Unit      $1,530         $510       $1,250         $417 2.  Pro-forma expenses were increased to include a $350/unit reserve for unit turn over. 3.  A market vacancy factor of 5% was applied to Potential Gross Income (PGI). 4.  Based on the Bank's revised N.O.I. of $1,075,000, the project can support debt in the amount of $8,868,000, and maintain our loan parameters of 1.25x debt coverage ratio, on a 25 year amo., and 8.60% phantom interest rate. 5.  The debt service will be approx. $874,000/year. 6.  Given the debt of $8,868,000, the Borrower will be required to provide equity of $2,956,000, consisting of the following: Land -                   $1,121,670 Deferred profit& Overhead     $    415,000 Cash Equity              $1,419,268 Total                    $2,955,938 7. Equity credit for deferred profit and overhead was limited to a percentage of actual hard construction costs. (See attached file: MAPTTRA.xls) - MAPTTRA.xls 
Darrell, Today I let the builder/developer know that I would not proceed with his excessively high cost estimates.  As he did not have the funds to take on the land himself, he was agreeable to turning over the land to me.  I would like to proceed and develop the property. My thought is to compare the financing between Bank One and FHA.  I would also like to compare construction and development services between what you can do and a local builder in San Marcos that I have been speaking with. Making a trip to meet you and take a look at some of your projects seems to be in order.  I am trying to get the status of engineering and architectural work to date.  Once again the architect is Kipp Florres and the engineer is Quattro Consultants out of Buda.  Let me know if you have an opinion about either. I look forward to working with you.  Talk to you tomorrow. 
Phillip: Here's a summary of our current forecast(s) for PNW hydro. Please give me a call when you have time, and I'll explain the old BiOp / new BiOp issue. Tim 
Reagan, Here is the cost estimate and proforma prepared by George and Larry.  I am faxing the site plan, elevation, and floor plans. 
Daryl, Here is the file that includes the proforma, unit costs, and comps.  This file was prepared by the builder/developer. The architect that has begun to work on the project is Kipp Flores.  They are in Austin. Thank you for your time this evening.  Your comments were very helpful.  I appreciate you and Greg taking a look at this project. Phillip Allen pallen@enron.com 
Al, I was not going to do the MS this year.  Thanks for the offer though. All is well here.  We went to Colorado last week and the kids learned to ski.  Work is same as always. How are things going at New Power?  Is there any potential? 
John, Did you put Frank Hayden up to this?  If this decision is up to me I would= =20 consider authorizing Mike G., Frank E., Keith H. and myself to trade west= =20 power.  What do you think? Phillip 
George, I am back in the office and ready to focus on the project.  I still have the concerns that I had last week.  Specifically that the costs of our project are too high.  I have gathered more information that support my concerns.  Based on my research, I believe the project should cost around $10.5 million.  The components are as follows: Unit Cost, Site work, & builders profit($52/sf)             $7.6 million Land                      1.15 Interim Financing               .85 Common Areas                     .80 Total                         $10.4 Since Reagan's last 12 units are selling for around $190,000, I am unable to get comfortable building a larger project at over $95,000/unit in costs. Also, the comps used in the appraisal from Austin appear to be class A properties.  It seems unlikely that student housing in San Marcos can produce the same rent or sales price.  There should adjustments for location and the seasonal nature of student rental property.  I recognize that Sagewood is currently performing at occupancy and $/foot rental rates that are closer to the appraisal and your pro formas, however, we do not believe that the market will sustain these levels on a permanent basis. Supply will inevitablely increase to drive this market more in balance. After the real estate expert from Houston reviewed the proforma and cost estimates, his comments were that the appraisal is overly optimistic.  He feels that the permanent financing would potentially be around $9.8 million.  We would not even be able to cover the interim financing. Keith and I have reviewed the project thoroughly and are in agreement that we cannot proceed with total cost estimates significantly above $10.5 million.   We would like to have a conference call Tuesday afternoon to discuss alternatives. Phillip 
The insurance company is: Central Insurance Agency, Inc 6000 N., Lamar P.O. Box 15427 Austin, TX 78761-5427 Policy #CBI420478 Contact:  Jeanette Peterson (512)451-6551 The actual policy is signed by Vista Insurance Partners. Please try and schedule the appraiser for sometime after 1 p.m. so my Dad can walk him around. I will be out of town on Tuesday.  What else do we need to get done before closing? 
George, I am back in the office and ready to focus on the project.  I still have the concerns that I had last week.  Specifically that the costs of our project are too high.  I have gathered more information that support my concerns. Based on my research, I believe the project should cost around $10.5 million.  The components are as follows: Unit Cost, Site work, & builders profit($52/sf)   $7.6 million Land      1.15 Interim Financing     .85 Common Areas       .80 Total     $10.4 Since Reagan's last 12 units are selling for around $190,000, I am unable to get comfortable building a larger project at over $95,000/unit in costs. Also, the comps used in the appraisal from Austin appear to be class A properties.  It seems unlikely that student housing in San Marcos can produce the same rent or sales price.  There should adjustments for location and the seasonal nature of student rental property.  I recognize that Sagewood is currently performing at occupancy and $/foot rental rates that are closer to the appraisal and your pro formas, however, we do not believe that the market will sustain these levels on a permanent basis.  Supply will inevitablely increase to drive this market more in balance. After the real estate expert from Houston reviewed the proforma and cost estimates, his comments were that the appraisal is overly optimistic.  He feels that the permanent financing would potentially be around $9.8 million. We would not even be able to cover the interim financing. Keith and I have reviewed the project thoroughly and are in agreement that we cannot proceed with total cost estimates significantly above $10.5 million. We would like to have a conference call tomorrow to discuss alternatives. Phillip 
I have not received the aircard 300 yet. 
Don, I was out last week.  Regarding the Montana supply, you can refer them to Mark Whitt in Denver. Let me know when you want to have the other meeting. Also, we frequently give out quotes to mid-marketers on Fred LaGrasta's desk or Enron marketers in New York where the customer is EES.  I don't understand why your people don't contact the desk directly. 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail Sorry, the deadline will have passed. Only Enron's deals through yesterday will be included in our survey. Anne.Bike@enron.com on 02/28/2001 04:57:52 PM 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail We will send it out this evening after we Calc our books.  Probably around 7:00 pm Anne liane_kucher@mcgraw-hill.com on 02/28/2001 01:43:44 PM 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail Anne, Are you planning to send today's bidweek deals soon? I just need to know whether to transfer everything to the data base. Thanks, Liane Kucher 202-383-2147 
Please find attached the pro formas for the project in San Marcos. Thanks again. 
Lucy, Here are few questions regarding the 2/16 rentroll: #2  Has she actually paid the $150 deposit.  Her move in date was 2/6.  It is not on any rentroll that I can see. #9  Explain again what deposit and rent is transferring from #41 and when she will start paying on #9 #15  Since he has been such a good tenant for so long.  Stop trying to collect the $95 in question. #33  Missed rent.  Are they still there? #26  I see that she paid a deposit.  But the file says she moved in on 1/30. Has she ever paid rent?  I can't find any on the last three deposits. #44  Have the paid for February?  There is no payment since the beginning of the year. #33  You email said they paid $140 on 1/30 plus $14 in late fees, but I don't see that on the 1/26 or 2/2 deposit? The last three questions add up to over $1200 in missing rent.  I need you to figure these out immediately. I emailed you a new file for 2/23 and have attached the last three rentroll in case you need to research these questions. I will not be in the office next week.  If I can get connected you might be able to email me at pallen70@hotmail.com.  Otherwise try and work with Gary on pressing issues.  If there is an emergency you can call me at 713-410-4679. 
George, I can take a day off the week I get back from vacation.  Any day between March 5th-9th would work but Friday or Thursday would be my preference. Regarding the differences in the two estimates, I don't want to waste your time explaining the differences if the 1st forecast was very rough.  The items I listed moved dramatically.  Also, some of the questions were just clarification of what was in a number. Let's try and reach an agreement on the construction manager issue tomorrow morning. 
George, The numbers on your fax don't agree to the first estimate that I am using. Here are the two files I used. 
Phillip - George Richards asked that I drop you a line this morning to go over some details on the San Marcos project. 1.  First, do you know if I am to receive a personal financial statement from Keith?  I want to make sure my credit write-up includes all the principals in the transaction. 2.  Second, without the forward or take-out our typical Loan to Cost (LTC) will be in the range of 75% - 80%.  The proposed Loan to Value of 75% is within the acceptable range for a typical Multi-Family deal.  Given the above pro-forma performance on the Sagewood Townhomes, I am structuring the deal to my credit officer as an 80% LTC.  This, of course, is subject to the credit officer signing off on the deal. 3.  The Bank can not give dollar for dollar equity credit on the Developers deferred profit.  Typically, on past deals a 10% of total project budget as deferred profit has been acceptable. Thanks, Andrew Ozuna Real Estate Loan Officer 210-271-8386 ## 
Attached  are two files that illustrate the following: As prices rose, supply increased and demand decreased.  Now prices are beginning to fall in response these market responses. 
You can fax it anytime.  But I saved the spreadsheets from the previous 
There have been some updates to the cost.  The principal change is in the addition of masonry on the front of the buildings, which I estimate will costs at least $84,000 additional.  Also, the trim material and labor costs have been increased.  I still believe that the total cost is more than sufficient, but there will be additional updates. The manager's unit is columns J-L, but the total is not included in the B&N total of rentable units.  Rather, the total cost for the manager's unit and office is included as a lump sum under amenities.  I may add this back in as a rentable unit and delete is as an amenity. The financing cost has been changed in that the cost of the permanent mortgage has been deleted because we will not need to obtain this for the construction loan approval, therefore, its cost will be absorbed when this loan is obtained. Based on either a loan equal to 75% of value or 80% of cost, the construction profit should cover any equity required beyond the land. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - SM134 Proforma2.xls 
Tomorrow is fine.  Talk to you then. 
Phillip and Keith, this cold of mine is getting the better of me.  Would it be possible to reschedule our meeting for tomorrow?  If so, please reply to this e-mail with a time.  I am open all day, but just need to get some rest this afternoon. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC 
Phillip, I spoke with AMF's broker today, and they will be satisfied with the deal if we can get the school to agree to limit the current land use restrictions to the terms that are in the existing agreement.  They do not want the school to come back at a later date for something different.  Doug Bell will meet with a school official on Monday to see what their thoughts are about the subject.  It would be hard for them to change the current agreement, but AMF wants something in writing to that effect.  I spoke to AMF's attorney today, and explained the situation.  They are OK with deal if AMF is satisfied. AMF's broker said that they will be ready to submit their site plan after the March 29 hearing.  We may close this deal in April. The Stage is still on go.  An assumption package has been sent to the buyer, and I have overnighted a copy of the contract and a description of the details to Wayne McCoy. I will be gone Thurs. and Fri. of this week.  I will be checking my messages. Jeff Smith The Smith Company 2714 Bee Cave Road, Suite 100-D Austin, Texas? 78746 512-732-0009 512-732-0010 fax 512-751-9728 mobile 
There have been some updates to the cost.  The principal change is in the addition of masonry on the front of the buildings, which I estimate will costs at least $84,000 additional.  Also, the trim material and labor costs have been increased.  I still believe that the total cost is more than sufficient, but there will be additional updates. The manager's unit is columns J-L, but the total is not included in the B&N total of rentable units.  Rather, the total cost for the manager's unit and office is included as a lump sum under amenities.  I may add this back in as a rentable unit and delete is as an amenity. The financing cost has been changed in that the cost of the permanent mortgage has been deleted because we will not need to obtain this for the construction loan approval, therefore, its cost will be absorbed when this loan is obtained. Based on either a loan equal to 75% of value or 80% of cost, the construction profit should cover any equity required beyond the land. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - SM134 Proforma2.xls 
The spinning bikes are so much better than the life cycles.  Would you consider placing several spinning bikes out with the other exercise equipment and running a spinning video on the TV's.  I think the equipment would be used much more.  Members could just jump on a bike and follow the video any time of day. Let me know if this is possible. Phillip Allen 
That would we very helpful. Thanks, 
Lucy, Thanks for clearing up the 2/2 file.  Moving on to 2/9, here are some questions: #1 It looks like he just missed 1/26&2/9 of $110.  I can't tell if he still owes $47 on his deposit. #13 I show she missed rent on 1/26 and still owes $140. #15 Try and follow up with Tomas about the $95.  Hopefully, he won't have a bad reaction. #20b Missed rent? #26  Has she paid any deposit or rent? #27 Missed rent? 
Lucy, Thanks for clearing up the 2/2 file.  Moving on to 2/9, here are some questions: #1 It looks like he just missed 1/26&2/9 of $110.  I can't tell if he still owes $47 on his deposit. #13 I show she missed rent on 1/26 and still owes $140. #15 Try and follow up with Tomas about the $95.  Hopefully, he won't have a bad reaction. #20b Missed rent? #26  Has she paid any deposit or rent? #27 Missed rent? 
Jaques, After meeting with George and Larry, it was clear that we have different definitions of cost and profit.  Their version includes the salary of a superintendent and a junior superintendent as hard costs equivalent to third 
George, Please send the latest cost estimates when you get a chance this morning. 
Jeanie, Lavorato called me into his office to question me about my inquiries into part time.  Nice confidentiality.  Since I have already gotten the grief, it would be nice to get some useful information.  What did you find out about part time, leave of absences, and sabbaticals?  My interest is for 2002. 
Enclosed is a copy of one of the draws submitted to Bank One for a prior job. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - DRAW2.xls 
> > > Jeff, > > Here is the application from SPB.  I guess they want to use the same form > as a new loan application.  I have a call in to Lee O'Donnell to try to > find out if there is a shorter form.  What do I need to be > providing to the > buyer according to the contract.  I was planning on bringing a copy of the > survey and a rentroll including deposits on Monday.  Please let me know > this morning what else I should be putting together. > > > Phillip > > 
> > > Lee, > > My fax number is 713-646-2391.  Please fax me a loan application > that I can > pass on to the buyer. > > Phillip Allen > pallen@enron.com > 713-853-7041 > > > (See attached file: Copy of Loan App.tif) > (See attached file: Copy of Multifamily forms) > > 
Christy, I read these points and they definitely need some touch up.  I don't understand why we need to give our commentary on  why prices are so high in California.  This subject has already gotten so much press. Phillip 
I would like to have a copy of the appraisal.  See you Monday at 2. 
Andrew, Here is an asset statement.  I will mail my 98 & 99 Tax returns plus a 2000 W2.  Is this sufficient? Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 wk 
Lee, Can you provide me with a copy of the original loan and a copy of the original appraisal. My fax number is 713-646-2391 Mailing address: 8855 Merlin Ct, Houston, TX 77055 Thank you, 
Jeff, Here is the application from SPB.  I guess they want to use the same form as a new loan application.  I have a call in to Lee O'Donnell to try to find out if there is a shorter form.  What do I need to be providing to the buyer according to the contract.  I was planning on bringing a copy of the survey and a rentroll including deposits on Monday.  Please let me know this morning what else I should be putting together. Phillip 
Forward Reg Dickson's resume to Ted Bland for consideration for the trading track program.  He is overqualified and I'm sure too expensive to fill the scheduling position I have available.  I will work with Cournie Parker to evaluate the other resumes. 
Lucy, Thanks for clearing up the 2/2 file.  Moving on to 2/9, here are some questions: #1 It looks like he just missed 1/26&2/9 of $110.  I can't tell if he still owes $47 on his deposit. #13 I show she missed rent on 1/26 and still owes $140. #15 Try and follow up with Tomas about the $95.  Hopefully, he won't have a bad reaction. #20b Missed rent? #26  Has she paid any deposit or rent? #27 Missed rent? 
Lee, My fax number is 713-646-2391.  Please fax me a loan application that I can pass on to the buyer. Phillip Allen pallen@enron.com 
Lucy, Here is the 2/2 rentroll.  The total does not equal the bank deposit.  Your earlier response answered the questions for #3,11,15,20a, and 35. But the deposit was $495 more than the rentroll adds up to.  If the answer to this question lies in apartment 1,13, and 14, can you update this file and send it back. Now I am going to work on a rentroll for this Friday.  I will probably send you some questions about the 2/9 rentroll.  Let's get this stuff clean today. 
As discussed in the California conference call this morning, I have prepared a bullet-point summary of the CERA Special Report titled Beyond the California Power Crisis: Impact, Solutions, and Lessons.If you have any questions, my phone number is 713 853-3170. Robert 
Greg, The kids are into typical toys and games.  Justin likes power ranger stuff.  Kelsey really likes art.  Books would also be good. We are spending Christmas in Houston with Heather's sister.  We are planning to come to San Marcos for New Years. How long will you stay?  what are your plans?  Email me with latest happenings with you in the big city. 
Colleen, I checked the transport model and found the following extrinsic values on January 2nd versus February 11: 1/2  2/11 Stanfield to Malin 209  81 SJ/Perm. to Socal 896  251 Sj to Socal  2747  768 PGE/Top to Citygate 51  3 PGE/Top to KRS 16  4 SJ to Valero  916  927 If these numbers are correct, then we haven't increased the extrinsic value since the beginning of the year.  Can you confirm that I am looking at the right numbers? 
Lucy, Here is a draft of a memo we should distribute to the units that are subject to caps.  I wrote it as if it were from you.  It should come from the manager. It is very important that we tell new tenants what the utility cap for there unit is when they move in.  This needs to be written in on their lease. When you have to talk to a tenant complaining about the overages emphasize that it is only during the peak months and it is already warming up. Have my Dad read the memo before you put it out.   You guys can make changes if you need to. Next week we need to take inventory of all air conditioners and refrigerators.  We have to get this done next week.  I will email you a form to use to record serial numbers.  The prospective buyers want this information plus we need it for our records.  Something to look forward to. It is 2 PM and I have to leave the office.  Please have my Dad call me with the information about the units at home 713-463-8626.  He will know what I mean. Talk to you later, 
I am sending the Dr. a contract for Monday delivery.  He is offering $739,000 with $73,900 down. He wants us to finish the work on the units that are being renovated now. We need to specify those units in the contract.  We also need to specify the units that have not been remodeled.  I think he will be a good buyer.  He is a local with plenty of cash.  Call me after you get this message. Jeff Smith The Smith Company 2714 Bee Cave Road, Suite 100-D Austin, Texas? 78746 512-732-0009 512-732-0010 fax 512-751-9728 mobile 
Lucy, Here is the rentroll for this Friday.  Sorry it is so late. There are a few problems with the rentroll from 2/2. 1.  I know you mentioned the deposit would be 5360.65 which is what the bank is showing, but the rentroll only adds up to 4865.   The missing money on the spreadsheet is probably the answer to my other questions below. 2.  #1 Did he pay the rent he missed on 1/26? 3.  #3 Did he miss rent on 1/26 and 2/2? 4.  #11 Missed on 2/2? 5.  #13 Missed on 1/26? 6.  #14  missed on 2/2? 7.  #15 missed on 2/2 and has not paid the 95 from 1/19? 8.  #20a missed on 2/2? 9.  #35 missed on 2/2? My guess is some of these were paid but not recorded on the 2/2 rentroll. You may have sent me a message over the ""chat"" line that I don't remember on some of these.  I just want to get the final rentroll to tie exactly to the bank deposit. Will have some time today to work on a utility letter.  Tried to call Wade last night at 5:30 but couldn't reach him.  Will try again today. I believe that a doctor from Seguin is going to make an offer.  Did you meet them?  If so, what did you think? 
I will email you an updated operating statement with Nov and Dec tomorrow morning.  What did the seguin doctor think of the place. How much could I get the stagecoach appraised for?  Do you still do 
Jacques, Can you draft the partnership agreement and the construction contract? The key business points are: 1.  Investment is a loan with prime + 1% rate 2.  Construction contract is cost plus $1.4 Million 3.  The investors' loan is repaid before any construction profit is paid. 4.  All parties are GP's but 3 out 4 votes needed for major decisions? 5.  60/40 split favoring the investors. With regard to the construction contract, we are concerned about getting a solid line by line cost estimate and clearly defining what constitutes costs.  Then we need a mechanism to track the actual expenses.  Keith and I would like to oversee the bookkeeping.  The builders would be requred to fax all invoices within 48 hours.  We also would want online access to the checking account of the partnership so we could see if checks were clearing but invoices were not being submitted. Let me know if you can draft these agreements.  The GP issue may need some tweaking. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 pallen@enron.com 
Lucy, Here is a final 12/01 rentroll for you to save.  My only questions are: 1.  Neil Moreno in #21-he paid $120 on 11/24, but did not pay anything on 12/01.  Even if he wants to swich to bi-weekly, he needs to pay at the beginning of the two week period.  What is going on? 2.  Gilbert in #27-is he just late? 
Here is a link to the governor's press release.  He is billing it as 5,000 MW of contracts, but then he says that there is only 500 available immediately. WIth the remainder available from 3 to 10 years. http://www.governor.ca.gov/state/govsite/gov_htmldisplay.jsp?BV_SessionID=@@@@ 1673762879.0981503886@@@@&BV_EngineID=falkdgkgfmhbemfcfkmchcng.0&sCatTitle=Pre ss+Release&sFilePath=/govsite/press_release/2001_02/20010206_PR01049_longtermc ontracts.html&sTitle=GOVERNOR+DAVIS+ANNOUNCES+LONG+TERM+POWER+SUPPLY&iOID=1325 0 
Send it to Ina Rangel she can forward it to appropriate traders.  There are 
Jeff, My target is to get $225 back out of the stage.  Therefore, I could take a sales price of $740K and carry a second note of $210K.  This would still only require $75K cash from the buyer.  After broker fees and a title policy, I would net around $20K cash. You can go ahead and negotiate with the buyer and strike the deal at $740 or higher with the terms described in the 1st email.  Do you want to give the New Braunfels buyer a quick look at the deal. 
Jeff, I am not willing to guarantee to refinance the 1st lien on the stage in 4 years and drop the rate on both notes at that point to 8%.  There are several reasons that I won't commit to this.  Exposure to interest fluctuations, the large cash reserves needed, and the limited financial resources of the buyer are the three biggest concerns. What I am willing to do is lower the second note to 8% amortized over the buyers choice of terms up to 30 years.  The existing note does not come due until September 2009.  That is a long time.  The buyer may have sold the property.  Interest rates may be lower.  I am bending over backwards to make the deal work with such an attractive second note.  Guaranteeing to refinance is pushing too far. Can you clarify the dates in the contract.  Is the effective date the day the earnest money is receipted or is it once the feasibility study is complete? Hopefully the buyer can live with these terms.  I got your fax from the New Braunfels buyer.  If we can't come to terms with the first buyer I will get started on the list. Email or call  me later today. Phillip 
Susan, Raised your issue to Sally Beck.  Larry is going to spend time with you to see if he can live without any reports.  Also some IT help should be on the way. 
When we meet,  I would like to address the following issues: 1.)  I had at least 5 people here past midnight on both nights and I have several people who have not left before 10:30 this week. 2.)  It is my understanding that Susan was still booking new day deals on Thursday night at 8:30 b/c she did not get deal tickets from the trading floor until after 5:00 p.m. 3.)  It is also my understanding that Susan is done with the p&l and benchmark part of her book often times by 6:00,  but that what keeps her here late is usually running numerous extra models and spreadsheets.  (One suggestion might be a permanent IT person on this book.)  (This was also my understanding from Kyle Etter,  who has left the company.) I would like to get this resolved as soon as possible so that Larry can get the information that he needs to be effective and so that we can run books like this and not lose good people. Thanks Larry May@ENRON 02/02/2001 02:43 PM 
As you might be aware,  Susan Scott (the book admin for the pipe option book) was forced by system problems to stay all night Wednesday night and until 200 am Friday  in order to calc my book.  While she is scheduled to rotate to the West desk soon,  I think we need to discuss putting two persons on my book in order to bring the work load to a sustainable level.  I'd like to meet at 2:30 pm on Monday to discuss this issue.  Please let me know if this time fits in your schedules. Thanks, Larry 
Lucy, Please fix #41 balance by deleting the $550 in the ""Rent Due"" column.  The other questions I had about last week's rent are: #15  Only paid 95 of their 190 on 1/19 then paid nothing on 1/26.  What is going on? #25  Looks like she was short by 35 and still owes a little on deposit #27 Switched to weekly, but paid nothing this week.  Why? I spoke to Jeff Smith.  I think he was surprised that we were set up with email and MSN Messenger.  He was not trying to insult you.  I let Jeff know that he should try and meet the prospective buyers when they come to see the property.  Occasionally, a buyer might stop buy without Jeff and you can show them around and let them know what a nice quiet well maintained place it is. Regarding the raise,  $260/week plus the apartment is all I can pay right now.  I increased your pay last year very quickly so you could make ends meet but I think your wages equate to $10/hr and that is fair.  As Gary and Wade continue to improve the property, I need you to try and improve the property's tenants and reputation.  The apartments are looking better and better, yet the turnover seems to be increasing. Remember that as a manager you need to set the example for the tenants.  It is hard to tell tenants that they are not supposed to have extra people move in that are not on the lease, when the manager has a houseful of guests.  I realize you have had a lot of issues with taking your son to the doctor and your daughter being a teenager, but you need to put in 40 hours and be working in the office or on the property during office unless you are running an errand for the property. I am not upset that you asked for a raise, but the answer is no at this time.  We can look at again later in the year. I will talk to you later or you can email or call over the weekend. Phillip 
Lucy, Please fix #41 balance by deleting the $550 in the ""Rent Due"" column.  The other questions I had about last week's rent are: #15  Only paid 95 of their 190 on 1/19 then paid nothing on 1/26.  What is going on? #25  Looks like she was short by 35 and still owes a little on deposit #27 Switched to weekly, but paid nothing this week.  Why? I spoke to Jeff Smith.  I think he was surprised that we were set up with email and MSN Messenger.  He was not trying to insult you.  I let Jeff know that he should try and meet the prospective buyers when they come to see the property.  Occasionally, a buyer might stop buy without Jeff and you can show them around and let them know what a nice quiet well maintained place it is. Regarding the raise,  $260/week plus the apartment is all I can pay right now.  I increased your pay last year very quickly so you could make ends meet but I think your wages equate to $10/hr and that is fair.  As Gary and Wade continue to improve the property, I need you to try and improve the property's tenants and reputation.  The apartments are looking better and better, yet the turnover seems to be increasing. Remember that as a manager you need to set the example for the tenants.  It is hard to tell tenants that they are not supposed to have extra people move in that are not on the lease, when the manager has a houseful of guests.  I realize you have had a lot of issues with taking your son to the doctor and your daughter being a teenager, but you need to put in 40 hours and be working in the office or on the property during office unless you are running an errand for the property. I am not upset that you asked for a raise, but the answer is no at this time.  We can look at again later in the year. I will talk to you later or you can email or call over the weekend. Phillip 
Calif ISO, PUC Inspect Off-line Duke South Bay Pwr Plant, DJ Calif Regula tors Visit AES,Dynegy Off-Line Power Plants 
Calif ISO, PUC Inspect Off-line Duke South Bay Pwr Plant, DJ Calif Regula tors Visit AES,Dynegy Off-Line Power Plants 
Calif ISO, PUC Inspect Off-line Duke South Bay Pwr Plant, DJ Calif Regula tors Visit AES,Dynegy Off-Line Power Plants 
I would like to go to this meeting.  Can you arrange it? 
As you might be aware,  Susan Scott (the book admin for the pipe option book) was forced by system problems to stay all night Wednesday night and until 200 am Friday  in order to calc my book.  While she is scheduled to rotate to the West desk soon,  I think we need to discuss putting two persons on my book in order to bring the work load to a sustainable level.  I'd like to meet at 2:30 pm on Monday to discuss this issue.  Please let me know if this time fits in your schedules. Thanks, Larry 
Susan hours are out of hand.  We need to find a solution.  Let's meet on Monday to assess the issue 
Got your email.  I will let Jacques know.  I guess we can work out the finer points next week.  The bank here in Houston is dealing with their auditors this week, so unfortunately I did not hear from them this week.  The are promising to have some feedback by Monday.  I will let you know as soon as I hear from them. 
George, The probability of building a house this year is increasing.  I have shifted to a slightly different plan.  There were too many design items that I could not work out in the plan we discussed previously.  Now, I am leaning more towards a plan with two wings and a covered courtyard in the center.  One wing would have a living/dining kitchen plus master bedroom downstairs with 3 kid bedrooms + a laundry room upstairs.  The other wing would have a garage + guestroom downstairs with a game room + office/exercise room upstairs.  This plan still has the same number of rooms as the other plan but with the courtyard and pool in the center this plan should promote more outdoor living.  I am planning to orient the house so that the garage faces the west. The center courtyard would be covered with a metal roof with some fiberglass skylights supported by metal posts.  I am envisioning the two wings to have single slope roofs that are not connected to the center building. I don't know if you can imagine the house I am trying to describe.  I would like to come and visit you again this month.  If it would work for you, I would like to drive up on Sunday afternoon on Feb. 18 around 2 or 3 pm.  I would like to see the progress on the house we looked at and tour the one we didn't have time for.  I can bring more detailed drawings of my new plan. Call or email to let me know if this would work for you. pallen70@hotmail.com or 713-463-8626(home), 713-853-7041(work) Phillip Allen PS.  Channel 2 in Houston ran a story yesterday (Feb. 2) about a home in Kingwood that had a poisonous strain of mold growing in the walls.  You should try their website or call the station to get the full story.  It would 
8500?????  That's twice as valuable as your car!  Can't you get a used one 
Nice.  how much? 
Testing.  Sell low and buy high 
testing 
Jeff, Before you write off the stage, a few things to think about. 1.  Operating expenses include $22,000 of materials for maintenance and repairs.  Plus having a full time onsite maintenance man means no extra labor cost for repairs.  There are only 44 units a lot of his time is spent on repairs. 2.  What is an outside management firm going to do?  A full time onsite manager is all that is required.  As I mentioned the prior manager has interest in returning.  Another alternative would be to hire a male manager that could do more make readies and lawn care.  If you turn it over to a management company you could surely reduce the cost of a full time manager onsite. 3.  Considering #1 & #2 $115,000 NOI is not necessarily overstated.  If you want to be ultra conservative use $100,000 at the lowest. 4.  Getting cash out is not a priority to me.  So I am willing to structure this deal with minimum cash.  A 10% note actually attractive. See below. My job just doesn't give me the time to manage this property.  This property definitely requires some time but it has the return to justify the effort. Sales Price  705,000 1st Lien   473,500 2nd Lien  225,000 Transfer fee    7,500 Cash required   14,500 NOI   100,000 1st Lien    47,292 2nd Lien   23,694 Cash flow  29,014 Cash on cash  200% These numbers are using the conservative NOI, if it comes in at $115K then cash on cash return would be more like 300%.   This doesn't reflect the additional profit opportunity of selling the property in the next few years for a higher price. Do you want to reconsider?  Let me know. Phillip 
Edison 
Edison 
The following are the highlights from the Executive Summary of the KPMG aud= it=20 report on Southern California Edison: =20 I. Cash Needs Highlights: SCE=01,s original cash forecast, dated as December 28, 2000, projects a com= plete=20 cash depletion date of February 1, 2001. Since then SCE has instituted a=20 program of cash conservation that includes suspension of certain obligation= s=20 and other measures.=20 Based on daily cash forecasts and cash conservation activities, SCE=01,s=20 available cash improved through January 19 from an original estimate of $51= .8=20 million to $1.226 billion. The actual cash flow, given these cash=20 conservation activities, extends the cash depletion date. II. Credit Relationships Highlights: SCE has exercised all available lines of credit and has not been able to=20 extend or renew credit as it has become due. At present, there are no additional sources of credit open to SCE. SCE=01,s loan agreements provide for specific clauses with respect to defau= lt.=20 Generally, these agreements provide for the debt becoming immediately due a= nd=20 payable. SCE=01,s utility plant assets are used to secure outstanding mortgage bond= =20 indebtedness, although there is some statutory capacity to issue more=20 indebtedness if it were feasible to do so. Credit ratings agencies have downgraded SCE=01,s credit ratings on most of = its=20 rated indebtedness from solid corporate ratings to below investment grade= =20 issues within the last three weeks. III. Energy Cost Scenarios Highlights This report section uses different CPUC supplied assumptions to assess=20 various price scenarios upon SCE=01,s projected cash depletion dates. Under= such=20 scenarios, SCE would have a positive cash balance until March 30, 2001. IV. Cost Containment Initiatives Highlights SCE has adopted a $460 million Cost Reduction Plan for the year 2001. The Plan consists of an operation and maintenance component and a capital= =20 improvement component as follows (in millions): Operating and maintenance costs     $ 77 Capital Improvement Costs                383 Total                                             $ 460 The Plan provides for up to 2,000 full, part-time and contract positions to= =20 be eliminated with approximately 75% of the total staff reduction coming fr= om=20 contract employees. Under the Plan, Capital Improvement Costs totaling $383 million are for the= =20 most part being deferred to a future date. SCE dividends to its common shareholder and preferred stockholders and=20 executive bonuses have been suspended, resulting in an additional cost=20 savings of approximately $92 million. V. Accounting Mechanisms to Track Stranded Cost Recovery (TRA and TCBA=20 Activity) Highlights: As of December 31, 2000, SCE reported an overcollected balance in the=20 Transition Cost Balancing Account (TCBA) Account of $494.5 million. This=20 includes an estimated market valuation of its hydro facilities of $500=20 million and accelerated revenues of $175 million. As of December 31, 2000, SCE reported an undercollected balance in SCE=01,s= =20 Transition Account (TRA) of $4.49 billion. Normally, the generation memorandum accounts are credited to the TCBA at th= e=20 end of each year. However, the current generation memorandum account credit= =20 balance of $1.5 billion has not been credited to the TCBA, pursuant to=20 D.01-01-018. Costs of purchasing generation are tracked in the TRA and revenues from=20 generation are tracked in the TCBA. Because these costs and revenues are=20 tracked separately, the net liability from procuring electric power, as=20 expressed in the TRA, are overstated. TURN Proposal As part of our review, the CPUC asked that we comment on the proposal of TU= RN=20 to change certain aspects of the regulatory accounting for transition asset= s.=20 Our comments are summarized as follows: The Proposal would have no direct impact on the cash flows of SCE in that i= t=20 would not directly generate nor use cash. The Proposal=01,s impact on SCE=01,s balance sheet would initially be to sh= ift=20 costs between two regulatory assets. TURN=01,s proposal recognizes that because the costs of procuring power and= the=20 revenues from generating power are tracked separately, the undercollection = in=20 the TRA is overstated. VI. Flow of Funds Analysis Highlights: In the last five years, SCE had generated net income of $2.7 billion and a= =20 positive cash flow from operations of $7 billion. During the same time period, SCE paid dividends and other distributions to= =20 its parent, Edison International, of approximately $4.8 billion. Edison International used the funds from dividends to pay dividends to its= =20 shareholders of $1.6 billion and repurchased shares of its outstanding comm= on=20 stock of $2.7 billion, with the remaining funds being used for administrati= ve=20 and general costs, investments, and other corporate purposes. [there is no Section VII] =20 VIII. Earnings of California Affiliates SCE=01,s payments for power to its affiliates were approximately $400-$500= =20 million annually and remained relatively stable from 1996 through 1999.=20 In 2000, the payments increased by approximately 50% to over $600 million.= =20 This increase correlates to the increase in market prices for natural gas for the same period. A copy of the report is available on the Commission website at=20 www.cpuc.ca.gov. =20 Dan 
Lucy, What is the latest?  Write me a note about what is going on and what issues you need my help to deal with when you send the rentroll. Phillip 
Phillip, How are you and how is everyone? I sent you the rent roll #27 is moving out and I wknow that I will be able to rent it real fast.All I HAVE TO DO IN there is touch up the walls .Four adults will be moving in @130.00 a wk and 175.00 deposit they will be in by Thursday or Friday. Thank You , Lucy ______________________________________________________________________________ _______ Get more from the Web.  FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com - rentroll_1201.xls 
Here's the link for the audit report 
This email came in to parties to the CPUC proceeding.  The materials should be available on the CPUC website, www.cpuc.ca.gov.  The full reports will be available.  ABB Parties, this e-mail note is to inform you that the KPMG audit report will be posted on the web as of 7:00 p.m on January 29, 2001.  You will see the following documents on the web: 1. President Lynch's statement 2. KPMG audit report of Edison 3. Ruling re: confidentiality Here is the link to the web site: http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/010129_audit_index.htm -- Andrew Brown Sacramento, CA andybrwn@earthlink.net 
George, Keith and I are reviewing your proposal.  We will send you a response by this evening. 
Phillip here is the information you requested. Shares  Vest date Grant Price 4584  12-31-01 18.375 3200 1600 12-31-01 20.0625 1600 12-31-02 20.0625 9368 3124 12-31-01 31.4688 3124 12-31-02 31.4688 3120 12-31-03 31.4688 5130 2565 1-18-02  55.50 2565 1-18-03  55.50 7143 2381 8-1-01  76.00 2381 8-1-02  76.00 2381 8-1-03  76.00 24 12 1-18-02  55.50 12 1-18-03  55.50 Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions.  Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. 
Jeff, That is good news about Leander. Now for the stage.  I would like to get it sold by the end of March.   I have about $225K invested in the stagecoach, it looks like I need to get around $745K to breakeven. I don't need the cash out right now so if I could get a personal guarantee and Jaques Craig can work out the partnership transfer, I would definitely be willing to carry a second lien.  I understand second liens are going for 10%-12%. Checkout this spreadsheet. These numbers should get the place sold in the next fifteen minutes. However,  I am very concerned about the way it is being shown.  Having Lucy show it is not a good idea.  I need you to meet the buyers and take some trips over to get more familar with the property.  My dad doesn't have the time and I don't trust Lucy or Wade to show it correctly.  I would prefer for you to show it from now on. I will have the operating statements complete through December by this Friday. Phillip 
George, Here is a spreadsheet that illustrates the payout of investment and builders profit.  Check my math, but it looks like all the builders profit would be recouped in the first year of operation.  At permanent financing $1.1 would be paid, leaving only .3 to pay out in the 1st year. Since almost 80% of builders profit is repaid at the same time as the investment, I feel the 65/35 is a fair split.  However, as I mentioned earlier, I think we should negotiate to layer on additional equity to you as part of the construction contract. Just to begin the brainstorming on what a construction agreement might look like here are a few ideas: 1.  Fixed construction profit of $1.4 million.  Builder doesn't benefit from higher cost, rather suffers as an equity holder. 2.  +5% equity for meeting time and costs in original plan ($51/sq ft, phase 1 complete in November) +5% equity for under budget and ahead of schedule -5% equity for over budget and behind schedule This way if things go according to plan the final split would be 60/40, but could be as favorable as 55/45.  I realize that what is budget and schedule must be discussed and agreed upon. Feel free to call me at home (713)463-8626 Phillip 
George, We should hear from the bank in Houston on Monday. The best numbers and times to reach me: work 713-853-7041 fax 713-464-2391 cell 713-410-4679 home 713-463-8626 pallen70@hotmail.com (home) pallen@enron.com (work) I am usually at work M-F 7am-5:30pm.  Otherwise try me at home then on my cell. Keiths numbers are: work 713-853-7069 fax 713-464-2391 cell 713-502-9402 home 713-667-5889 kholst@enron.com Phillip 
Dexter, You should receive a guest id shortly. 
Griff, Can you accomodate Dexter as we have in the past.  This has been very helpful in establishing a fair index at Socal Border. Phillip Please cc me on the email with a guest password.  The sooner the better as bidweek is underway. 
Phillip, I was wondering if I could trouble you again for another guest id for eol. In previous months, it has helped us here at NGI when we go to set indexes. I appreciate your help on this. Dexter 
Patti, This sounds like an opportunity to land a couple of analyst to fill the gaps in scheduling.  Remember their rotations last for one year.  Do you want to be an interviewer? Phillip 
I would support Matt Lenhart's promotion to the next level. 
Nick, There is a specific program that we are using to recruit, train, and mentor new traders on the gas and power desks.    The trading track program is being coordinated by Ted Bland.  I have forwarded him your resume.  Give him a call and he will fill you in on the details of the program. 
Lucy, #32 and #29 are fine. #28 paid weekly on 1/5.  Then he switched to biweekly.  He should have paid 260 on 1/12.  Two weeks rent in advance.  Instead he paid 260 on 1/19.  He either needs to get back on schedule or let him know he is paying in the middle of his two weeks.  He is only paid one week in advance.  This is not a big deal, but you should be clear with tenants that rent is due in advance. Here is an updated rentroll.  Please use this one instead of the one I sent you this morning. Finally, can you fax me the application and lease from #9. 
Lucy, Here is a rentroll for this week.  I still have questions on #28,#29, and #32. 
Larry, I met with a banker that is interested in financing the project.  They need the following: Financial statements plus last two years tax returns. Builders resume listing similar projects The banker indicated he could pull together a proposal by Friday.  If we are interested in his loan, he would want to  come see the site. If you want to overnight me the documents, I will pass them along.   You can send them to my home or office (1400 Smith, EB3210B, Houston, TX 77002). The broker is Jim Murnan.  His number is 713-781-5810, if you want to call him and send the documents to him directly. It sounds like the attorneys are drafting the framework of the partnership agreement.  I would like to nail down the outstanding business points as soon as possible. Please email or call with  an update. 
By STEVE EVERLY - The Kansas City Star 
living. com Regarding Sale of Information 
please remove my name and information from the registered user list.  Do not sell my information. 
Jeff, Here is a recent rentroll.  I understand another looker went to the property.  I want to hear the feedback no matter how discouraging. I am in Portland for the rest of the week.  You can reach me on my cell phone 713-410-4679.  My understanding was that you would be overnighting some closing statements for Leander on Friday.  Please send them to my house (8855 Merlin Ct, Houston, TX 77055). Call me if necessary. Phillip 
_________________________________________________________________ Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com - rentroll_investors_0112.xls 
Larry, The wire should go out today.  I am in Portland but can be reached by cell phone 713-410-4679.  Call me if there are any issues.  I will place a call to my attorney to check on the loan agreement. 
Lucy, Why did so many tenants not pay this week? #12 95 #21 240 #27 120 #28 260 #33 260 Total 975 It seems these apartments just missed rent.  What is up? Other questions: #9-Why didn't they pay anything?  By my records, they still owe $40 plus rent should have been due on 12/12 of $220. #3-Why did they short pay? 
Kristin, Thank you for the California update.  Please continue to include me in all further intellegence reports regarding the situation in California. 
Andrea, Please resend the first three resumes. 
Here's our first cut at a full year hydro projection:  Please keep confidential. 
Jim, Here are the key gas contacts. Work   Home   Cell Phillip Allen  X37041   713-463-8626  713-410-4679 Mike Grigsby  X37031   713-780-1022  713-408-6256 Keith Holst  X37069   713-667-5889  713-502-9402 Please call me with any significant developments. 
Lucy, The apartments that have new tenants since December 15th are: 1,2,8,12,13,16,20a,20b,25,32,38,39. Are we running an apartment complex or a motel? Please update all lease information on the 1/12 rentroll and email it to me this afternoon. 
Larry, Do you want the loan and wire amount to be for exactly $1.1 million. 
Thanks for representing Matt. 
George, Here is a spreadsheet that illustrates the payout of investment and builders profit.  Check my math, but it looks like all the builders profit would be recouped in the first year of operation.  At permanent financing $1.1 would be paid, leaving only .3 to pay out in the 1st year. Since almost 80% of builders profit is repaid at the same time as the investment, I feel the 65/35 is a fair split.  However, as I mentioned earlier, I think we should negotiate to layer on additional equity to you as part of the construction contract. Just to begin the brainstorming on what a construction agreement might look like here are a few ideas: 1.  Fixed construction profit of $1.4 million.  Builder doesn't benefit from higher cost, rather suffers as an equity holder. 2.  +5% equity for meeting time and costs in original plan ($51/sq ft, phase 1 complete in November) +5% equity for under budget and ahead of schedule -5% equity for over budget and behind schedule This way if things go according to plan the final split would be 60/40, but could be as favorable as 55/45.  I realize that what is budget and schedule must be discussed and agreed upon. Feel free to call me at home (713)463-8626 Phillip 
Lucy, Here is a schedule of the most recent utility bills and the overages.  There are alot of overages.  It will probably get worse this month because of all the cold weather. You need to be very clear with all new tenants about the electricity cap. This needs to be handwritten on all new leases. I am going to fax you copies of the bills that support this spreadsheet.  We also need to write a short letter remind everyone about the cap and the need to conserve energy if they don't want to exceed their cap.  I will write something today. Wait until you have copies of the bills and the letter before you start collecting. 
We do not understand our VAR.  Can you please get us all the detailed reports and component VAR reports that you can produce? The sooner the better. 
Ted, Andrea in the analysts pool asked me to fill out this request.  Can you help expedite this process? Phillip 
Frank, Did you receive the information about the San Marcos apartments.  I have left several messages at your office to follow up.  You mentioned that your plate was fairly full.  Are you too busy to look at this project?  As I mentioned I would be interested in speaking to you as an advisor or at least a sounding board for the key issues. Please email or call. Phillip Allen pallen@enron.com 
Questions about 12/29 rentroll: There were two deposits that were not labeled.  One for $150 and the other for $75.  Which apartments?  20a or #13? Utility overages for #26 and #44?  Where did you get these amounts?  For what periods? What is going on with #42.   Do not evict this tenant for being unclean!!! That will just create an apartment that we will have to spend a lot of money and time remodeling.  I would rather try and deal with this tenant by first asking them to clean their apartment and fixing anything that is wrong like leaky pipes.  If that doesn't work, we should tell them we will clean the apartment and charge them for the labor.  Then we will perform monthly inspections to ensure they are not damaging the property.  This tenant has been here since September 1998, I don't want to run them off. I check with the bank and I did not see that a deposit was made on Tuesday so I couldn't check the total from the rentroll against the bank.  Is this right?  Has the deposit been made yet? A rentroll for Jan 5th will follow shortly. 
comments/suggestions 
Trading Profits P. Allen  200 M. Grigsby 463 Rest of Desk 282 Total  945 I view my bonus as partly attributable to my own trading and partly to the group's performance.  Here are my thoughts. Minimum  Market   Maximum Cash  2 MM   4 MM   6 MM Equity  2 MM   4 MM   6 MM Here are Mike's numbers.  I have not made any adjustments to them. Minimum  Market   Maximum Cash  2 MM   3 MM   4 MM Equity  4 MM   7 MM   12 MM I have given him an ""expectations"" speech, but you might do the same at some point. Phillip 
Larry, I was able to scan my 98 & 99 tax returns into Adobe.  Here they are plus the excel file is a net worth statement.  If you have any trouble downloading or printing these files let me know and I can fax them to you.   Let's talk later today. Phillip P.S.  Please remember to get Jim Murnan the info. he needs. 
Gentlemen, I continue to speak to an attorney for help with the investment structure and a mortgage broker for help with the financing.  Regarding the financing, I am working with Jim Murnan at Pinnacle Mortgage here in Houston.  I have sent him some information on the project, but he needs financial information on you.  Can you please send it to him.  His contact information is:  phone (713)781-5810, fax (713)781-6614, and email jim123@pdq.net. I know Larry has been working with a bank and they need my information.  I hope to pull that together this afternoon. I took the liberty of calling Thomas Reames from the Frog Pond document.  He was positive about his experience overall.  He did not seem pleased with the bookkeeping or information flow to the investor.  I think we should discuss these procedures in advance. Let's continue to speak or email frequently as new developments occur. 
Jim, I would appreciate your help in locating financing for the project I described to you last week.  The project is a 134 unit apartment complex in San Marcos.  There will be a builder/developer plus myself and possibly a couple of other investors involved.  As I mentioned last week, I would like to find interim financing (land, construction, semi-perm) that does not require the investors to personally guarantee.  If there is a creative way to structure the deal, I would like to hear your suggestions.  One idea that has been mentioned is to obtain a ""forward commitment"" in order to reduce the equity required.  I would also appreciate hearing from you how deals of this nature are normally financed.  Specifically, the transition from interim to permanent financing.  I could use a quick lesson in what numbers will be important to banks. I am faxing you a project summary.  And I will have the builder/developer email or fax his financial statement to you. Let me know what else you need.  The land is scheduled to close mid January. 
Jeff, Everything should be done for closing on the Leander deal on the 29th.  I have fed ex'd the closing statements and set up a wire transfer to go out tomorrow.    When will more money be required?  Escrow for roads?  Utility connections?  Other rezoning costs? What about property taxes?  The burnet land lost its ag exemption while I owned it.  Are there steps we can take to hold on to the exemption on this property?  Can you explain the risks and likelihood of any rollback taxes once the property is rezoned?  Do we need to find a farmer and give him grazing rights? What are the important dates coming up and general status of rezoning and annexing?  I am worried about the whole country slipping into a recession and American Multifamily walking on this deal.  So I just want to make sure we are pushing the process as fast as we can. 
Steve, I am sending you a variety of charts with prices and operational detail.  If you need to call with questions my home number is 713-463-8626. As far as recommendations, here is a short list: 1.  Examine LDC's incentive rate program.  Current methodology rewards sales above monthly index without enough consideration of future replacement cost.  The result is that the LDC's sell gas that should be injected into storage when daily prices run above the monthly index. This creates a shortage in later months. 2.  California has the storage capacity and pipeline capacity to meet demand.  Investigate why it wasn't maximized operationally. Specific questions should include: 1.  Why in March '00-May '00  weren't total system receipts higher in order to fill storage? 2.  Why are there so many examples of OFO's on weekends that push away too much gas from Socal's system. I believe Socal gas does an extremely poor job of forecasting their own demand.  They repeatedly estimated they would receive       more gas than their injection capablity, but injected far less. 3.  Similar to the power market,  there is too much benchmarking to short term prices.  Not enough forward hedging is done by the major LDCs.  By design the customers are short at a floating rate.  This market has been long historically.  It has been a buyers market and the consumer has benefitted. Call me if you need any more input. 
Lucy, Here is a rentroll for this week.  The one you sent for 11/24 looked good. It seems like most people are paying on time.  Did you rent an efficiency to the elderly woman on a fixed income?  Go ahead a use your judgement on the rent prices for the vacant units.  If you need to lower the rent by $10 or $20 to get things full, go ahead. I will be out of the office on Thursday.  I will talk to you on Friday. Phillip 
Monique Sanchez Jay Reitmeyer Randy Gay 
John, Here is our North of Stanfield forecast for Jan. Supply    Jan '01   Dec '00   Jan '00 Sumas   900   910   815 Jackson Pr.  125    33   223 Roosevelt  300   298   333 Total Supply  1325   1241   1371 Demand North of Chehalis 675   665   665 South of Chehalis 650   575   706 Total Demand  1325   1240   1371 Roosevelt capacity is 495. Let me know how your forecast differs. Phillip 
Please assign global id's to the four junior traders listed on Dawn's original email.  The are all trading and need to have unique id's. 
Received the fax.  Thank you.  I might have to sell the QQQ and take the loss for taxes.  But I would roll right into a basket of individual technology stocks.  I think I mentioned this to you previously that I have decided to 
George & Larry, If possible,  I would like to get together in Columbus as Larry suggested. Thursday afternoon is the only day that really works for me. Let me know if that would work for you.  I was thinking around 2  or 2:30 pm. I will try to email you any questions I have from the latest proforma tomorrow. Phillip 
Jeff, Hear is a new NOI file.  I have added an operating statement for 1999 (partial year). I will try to email you some photos soon. Phillip 
Jeff, The files attached contain a current rentroll, 2000 operating statement, and a proforma operating statement. 
Attached please find the spreadsheet containing the above referenced information. 
Larry, 10 AM tomorrow is good for me.  If you want to email me anything tonight, please use pallen70@hotmail.com. 
Lucy, I want to get the lease data and tenant data updated. The critical information is  1.  Move in or lease start date 2.  Lease expiration date 3.  Rent 4.  Deposit If you have the info you can fill in these items  1.  Number of occupants 2.  Workplace All the new leases should be the long form. The apartments that have new tenants since these columns have been updated back in October are  #3,5,9,11,12,17,21,22,23,25,28,33,38. I really need to get this by tomorrow.  Please use the rentroll_1215 file to input the correct information on all these tenants.  And email it to me tomorrow.  You should have all this information on their leases and applications. 
Lucy, Here is a new file for 12/15. For the rentroll for 12/08 here are my questions: #23 & #24 did not pay.  Just late or moving? #25 & #33 Both paid 130 on 12/01 and $0 on 12/08.  What is the deal? #11  Looks like she is caught up.  When is she due again? Please email the answers. Phillip 
Attached  are two files that illustrate the following: As prices rose, supply increased and demand decreased.  Now prices are beginning to fall in response these market responses. 
______________________________________________________________________________ _______ Get more from the Web.  FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com - rentroll_1124.xls 
George, I received the drawings.  They look good at first glance.  I will look at them in depth this weekend.  The proforma was in the winmail.dat format which I cannot open.  Please resend in excel or a pdf format.  If you will send it to pallen70@hotmail.com, I will be able to look at it this weekend.  Does this file have a timeline for the investment dollars?  I just want to get a feel for when you will start needing money. 
Paula, I looked over the plan.  It looks fine. 
Enclosed is the cost breakdown for the appraiser.  Note that the construction management fee (CMF) is stated at 12.5% rather than our standard rate of 10%.  This will increase cost and with a loan to cost ratio of 75%, this will increase the loan amount and reduce required cash equity. Also, we are quite confident that the direct unit and lot improvement costs are high.  Therefore, we should have some additional room once we have actual bids, as The Met project next door is reported to have cost $49 psf without overhead or CMF, which is $54-55 with CMF. It appears that the cash equity will be $1,784,876.  However, I am fairly sure that we can get this project done with $1.5MM. I hope to finish the proforma today.  The rental rates that we project are $1250 for the 3 ADA units, $1150-1200 for the 2 bedroom and $1425 for the 3 bedroom.  Additional revenues could be generated by building detached garages, which would rent for $50-75 per month. - winmail.dat 
Faith, Regarding the 2001 plan, the members of the west desk are as follows: Name   Title Trading Phillip Allen  VP Mike Grigsby  Director Keith Holst  Manager(possible Director) Janie Tholt  Director Steve South  Director Frank Ermis  Manager Tori Kuykendall  Manager Matt Lenhart  Analyst(possible associate) Monique Sanchez Commercial Support Manager Jay Reitmeyer  Senior Specialist Ina Rangel  Assistant (split costs with middle market) Marketing Barry Tycholiz  Director Mark Whitt  Director Paul Lucci  Manager (possible Director) 2-3 TBD Do I need to give you the names of our operations group? Special Pays-  I believe Mike Grigsby has a retention payment due this year. Also we should budget for another $150,000 of special payments. I know you have been working with Barry T.  if his headcount is different on the Marketing staff use his numbers.  Let me know if there is anything else you need. Phillip 
Faith, Regarding the 2001 plan, the members of the west desk are as follows: Name   Title Trading Phillip Allen  VP Mike Grigsby  Director Keith Holst  Manager(possible Director) Janie Tholt  Director Steve South  Director Frank Ermis  Manager Tori Kuykendall  Manager Matt Lenhart  Analyst(possible associate) Monique Sanchez Commercial Support Manager Jay Reitmeyer  Senior Specialist Ina Rangel  Assistant (split costs with middle market) Marketing Barry Tycholiz  Director Mark Whitt  Director Paul Lucci  Manager (possible Director) 2-3 TBD Do I need to give you the names of our operations group? Special Pays-  I believe Mike Grigsby has a retention payment due this year. Also we should budget for another $150,000 of special payments. I know you have been working with Barry T.  if his headcount is different on the Marketing staff use his numbers.  Let me know if there is anything else you need. Phillip 
George, The other files opened fine, but I can't open winmail.dat files.  Can you resend this one in a pdf format.? Thanks, 
Phillip, How are you today I am very busy but I have to let you know that #37 I.Knockum is pd up untill 11/17/00 because on 10/26/00 she pd 250.00 so i counted and tat pays her up untill 10/26/ or did i count wrong? Lucy says: she pays 125.00 a week but she'sgoing on vacation so thjat is why she pd more Lucy says: I have all the deposit ready but she isn't due on this roll I just wanted to tell you because you might think she didn't pay or something Lucy says: the amnt is:4678.00 I rented #23 aand #31 may be gone tonight I have been putting in some overtime trying to rent something out i didnt leave last night untill 7:00 and i have to wait for someone tonight that works late. phillip says: send me the rentroll when you can phillip says: Did I tell you that I am going to try and be there this Fri & Sat Lucy says: no you didn't tell me that you were going to be here but wade told me this morning I sent you the roll did you get it? Did you need me here this weekend because I have a sweet,sixteen I'm getting ready for and if you need me here Sat,then I will get alot done before then. phillip says: We can talk on Friday Lucy says: okay see ya later bye. Lucy says: I sent you the roll did you get it ? phillip says: yes thank you The following message could not be delivered to all recipients: yes thank you 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Can you guys coordinate to make sure someone listens to this conference call each week.  Tara from the fundamental group was recording these calls when they happened every day. Phillip 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted Please forward to anyone on your team that wants updates on Western wholesale matters (should also give you an opportunity to raise state matters if you want to discuss). Jim 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Ina, Where can we put Barry T.? Phillip 
I will be relocating to 32 effective Dec. 4.  Can you have me set up with all the required equipment including, PC ( 2 Flat screens), Telephone, and cell phone. Talk to Phillip regarding where to set my seat up for right now. Thanks in advance. . Barry If there are any questions... Give me a call.  ( 403-) 245-3340. 
George, Just a note to check in.  Are there any new developments? 
Faith, Regarding the 2001 plan, the members of the west desk are as follows: Name   Title Trading Phillip Allen  VP Mike Grigsby  Director Keith Holst  Manager(possible Director) Janie Tholt  Director Steve South  Director Frank Ermis  Manager Tori Kuykendall  Manager Matt Lenhart  Analyst(possible associate) Monique Sanchez Commercial Support Manager Jay Reitmeyer  Senior Specialist Ina Rangel  Assistant (split costs with middle market) Marketing Barry Tycholiz  Director Mark Whitt  Director Paul Lucci  Manager (possible Director) 2-3 TBD Do I need to give you the names of our operations group? Special Pays-  I believe Mike Grigsby has a retention payment due this year. Also we should budget for another $150,000 of special payments. I know you have been working with Barry T.  if his headcount is different on the Marketing staff use his numbers.  Let me know if there is anything else you need. Phillip 
Phillip, Here is your hotel itinerary for Monday night. -Ina 
SALES AGT: JS/ZBATUD ALLEN/PHILLIP ENRON 1400 SMITH HOUSTON TX 77002 INA RANGEL X37257 DATE:  NOV 03 2000                   ENRON HOTEL                 06NOV DOUBLETREE DURANGO 07NOV 501 CAMINO DEL RIO DURANGO, CO 81301 TELEPHONE: (970) 259-6580 CONFIRMATION: 85110885 REFERENCE: D1KRAC RATE: RAC USD 89.00 PER NIGHT GHT ADDITIONAL CHARGES MAY APPLY INVOICE TOTAL                  0 THANK YOU *********************************************** **48 HR CANCELLATION REQUIRED** THANK YOU FOR CALLING VITOL TRAVEL __________________________________________________ Do You Yahoo!? From homework help to love advice, Yahoo! Experts has your answer. http://experts.yahoo.com/ 
As noted in my  last e-mail, the Ray Nixon expansion project in Colorado had the incorrect start date.  My last report showed an online date of May 2001; the actual anticipated online date is May 2003. The following list ranks the quality and quantity of information that I have access to in the WSCC: 1) CA - siting office, plant contacts 2) PNW - siting offices, plant contacts 3) DSW - plant contacts, 1 siting office for Maricopa County Arizona. 4) Colorado - Integrated Resource Plan If anyone has additional information regarding new generation in the Desert Southwest or Colorado, such as plant phone numbers or contacts, I would greatly appreciate receiving this contact information. 
_________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com. Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at http://profiles.msn.com. - rentroll_1027.xls - rentroll_1103.xls 
No can do. 
George, Your attachment is not opening on my computer.  Can you put the info in Word instead? Thanks, Phillip 
Please excuse the delay in getting these resumes to you.  Larry did not have his prepared and then I forgot to send them.  I'll try to get a status report to you latter today. - winmail.dat 
http://westpower.enron.com/ca/generation/default.asp 
Bob, Activate Plan B.  No money from John. Wish I had better news. 
Dave, The back office is having a hard time dealing with the $11 million dollars that is to be recognized as transport expense by the west desk then recouped from the Office of the Chairman.    Is your understanding that the West desk will receive origination each month based on the schedule below. The Office of the Chairman agrees to grant origination to the Denver desk as follows: October 2000  $1,395,000 November 2000 $1,350,000 December 2000 $1,395,000 January 2001  $   669,600 February 2001  $   604,800 March 2001  $   669,600 April 2001  $   648,000 May 2001  $   669,600 June 2001  $   648,000 July 2001  $   669,600 August 2001  $   669,600 September 2001 $   648,000 October 2001  $   669,600 November 2001 $   648,000 December 2001 $   669,600 This schedule represents a demand charge payable to NBP Energy Pipelines by the Denver desk.  The demand charge is $.18/MMBtu on 250,000 MMBtu/Day (Oct-00 thru Dec-00) and 120,000 MMBtu/Day (Jan-01 thru Dec-01).  The ENA Office of the Chairman has agreed to reimburse the west desk for this expense. Let me know if you disagree. 
Steve, Thank you for the update.  The need is still great for this disk space. 
Bob, I spoke to Jeff.  He said he would not pay anything. I am waiting for John to be in a good mood to ask.  What is plan B? 
Phil, Thanks so much for pulling together the November bidweek information for the West and getting it to us with so much detail well before our deadline. Please call me if you have any questions, comments, and/or concerns about bidweek. Liane Kucher, Inside FERC Gas Market Report 202-383-2147 
We linked the file you sent us to telerate and we replace >40000 equals $250 to a 41.67 heat rate.  We applied forward gas prices to historical loads.  I guess this gives us a picture of a low load year and a normal load year. Prices seem low.  Looks like November NP15 is trading above the cap based on Nov 99 loads and current gas prices.  What about a forecast for this November loads. Let me know what you think. Phillip 
We linked the file you sent us to telerate and we replace >40000 equals $250 to a 41.67 heat rate.  We applied forward gas prices to historical loads.  I guess this gives us a picture of a low load year and a normal load year. Prices seem low.  Looks like November NP15 is trading above the cap based on Nov 99 loads and current gas prices.  What about a forecast for this November loads. Let me know what you think. 
Dexter, I spoke to our EOL support group and requested a guest id for you.  Did you receive an email with a login and password yesterday? If not, call me and I will find out why not. Phillip 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted Please forward to anyone on your team that wants updates on Western wholesale matters (should also give you an opportunity to raise state matters if you want to discuss). Jim 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
George, The San Marcos project is sounding very attractive.  I have one other investor in addition to Keith that has interest.  Some additional background information on Larry and yourself would be helpful. Background Questions: Please provide a brief personal history of the two principals involved in Creekside. Please list projects completed during the last 5 years.  Include the project description, investors, business entity, Please provide the names and numbers of prior investors. Please provide the names and numbers of several subcontractors used on recent projects. With regard to the proposed investment structure, I would suggest a couple of changes to better align the risk/reward profile between Creekside and the investors. Preferable Investment Structure: Developers guarantee note, not investors. Preferred rate of return (10%) must be achieved before any profit sharing. Builder assumes some risk for cost overruns. Since this project appears so promising, it seems like we should tackle these issues now.  These questions are not intended to be offensive in any way.  It is my desire to build a successful project with Creekside that leads to future opportunities.  I  am happy to provide you with any information that you need to evaluate myself or Keith as a business partner. Sincerely, Phillip Allen 
Bob, Patti Sullivan held together the scheduling group for two months while Randy Gay was on a personal leave.  She displayed a tremendous amount of commitment to the west desk during that time.  She frequently came to work before 4 AM to prepare operations reports.  Patti worked 7 days a week during this time. If long hours were not enough, there was a pipeline explosion during this time which put extra volatility into the market and extra pressure on Patti. She didn't crack and provided much needed info during this time. Patti is performing the duties of a manager but being paid as a sr. specialist.  Based on her heroic efforts, she deserves a PBR.  Let me know what is an acceptable cash amount. 
Andy, Please assign a user name to Randy Gay. Thank you, 
Andy, I spoke to John L. and he ok'd one of each new electronic system for the west desk.  Are there any operational besides ICE and Dynegy?  If not, can you have your assistant call me with id's and passwords. Thank you, 
STRUCTURE: Typically the structure is a limited partnership with a corporate (or LLC) general partner.  The General Partner owns 1% of the project and carries the liability of construction. LAND OWNERSHIP & LOANS The property would be purchased in the name of the limited partnership and any land loans, land improvements loans and construction loans would be in the name of the limited partnership.  Each of the individual investors and all of the principals in Creekside would also personally guarantee the loans.  If the investor(s) do not sign on the loans, this generally means that a larger amount of cash is required and the investor's share of profits is reduced. All loans for residential construction, that are intended for re-sale, are full recourse loans.  If we are pursuing multifamily rental developments, the construction loans are still full recourse but the mortgage can often be non-recourse. USE OF INITIAL INVESTMENT The initial investment is used for land deposit, engineering & architectural design, soils tests, surveys, filing fees, legal fees for organization and condominium association formation,  and appraisals.  Unlike many real estate investment programs, none of the funds are used for fees to Creekside Builders, LLC.  These professional expenses will be incurred over the estimated 6 month design and approval period. EARLY LAND COSTS The $4,000 per month costs listed in the cash flow as part of land cost represent the extension fees due to the seller for up to 4 months of extensions on closing.  As an alternative, we can close into a land loan at probably 70% of appraised value.  With a land value equal to the purchase price of $680,000 this would mean a land loan of $476,000 with estimated monthly interest payments of $3,966, given a 10% annual interest rate, plus approximately 1.25% of the loan amount for closing costs and loan fees. EQUITY AT IMPROVEMENT LOAN Once the site plan is approved by the City of Austin, the City will require the development entity to post funds for fiscal improvements, referred to as the ""fiscals"".  This cost represents a bond for the completion of improvements that COA considers vital and these funds are released once the improvements have been completed and accepted by COA.  This release will be for 90% of the cost with the remaining 10% released one year after completion.  Releases can be granted once every 90 days and you should expect that the release would occur 6 months after the start of lot improvement construction.  These fiscals are usually posted in cash or an irrevocable letter of credit.  As such, they have to be counted as a development cost, even though they are not spent.  Because they are not spent no interest is charged on these funds. The lot improvement loan is typically 75% of the appraised value of a finished lot, which I suspect will be at least $20,000 and potentially as high as $25,000.  This would produce a loan amount of  $15,000 on $20,000 per lot.  With estimated per lot improvement costs of $9,000, 'fiscals' at $2,000 and the land cost at $8,000 , total improved lot cost is $19,000 which means $0 to $4,000 per lot in total equity.  The investment prior to obtaining the improvement loan would count towards any equity requirement provided it was for direct costs.  Thus, the additional equity for the improvement loan would be $0-$184,000.   Even if the maximum loan would cover all costs, it is unlikely the bank would allow reimbursement of funds spent. The higher estimates of equity investments are shown in the preliminary proforma to be on the safe side.  The engineer is preparing a tentative site layout with an initial evaluation of the phasing, which can significantly reduce the cash equity requirement. Phasing works as follows.  If the first phase was say 40 units, the total lot improvement cost might average $31,000 per lot.   Of this, probably $13,000 would be for improvements and $19,000 for the land cost.  The improvements are higher to cover large one time up front costs for design costs, the entry road, water treatment costs, perimeter fencing and landscaping, and so on, as well as for 100% of the land.  The land loan for undeveloped lots would be 70% of the appraised raw lot value, which I would estimate as $10,000 per lot for a loan value of $7,000 per lot.  Then the loan value for each improved lot would be $15,000 per lot.  This would give you a total loan of $992,000, total cost of $1,232,645 for equity required of $241,000.  This was not presented in the initial analysis as the phasing is depended on a more careful assessment by the Civil Engineer as the separate phases must each be able to stand on its own from a utility standpoint. CONSTRUCTION LOANS There are three types of  construction loans.  First, is a speculative (spec) loan that is taken out prior to any pre-sales activity.  Second,  is a construction loan for a pre-sold unit, but the loan remains in the builder/developers name.  Third, is a pre-sold unit with the construction loan in the name of the buyer.  We expect to have up to 8 spec loans to start the project and expect all other loans to be pre-sold units with loans in the name of the builder/developer.  We do not expect to have any construction loans in the name of the buyers, as such loans are too difficult to manage and please new buyers unfamiliar with the process. Spec loans will be for 70% to 75% of value and construction loans for pre-sold units, if the construction loan is from the mortgage lender,  will be from 80% to 95% of value. DISBURSEMENTS Disbursements will be handled by the General Partner to cover current and near term third party costs, then to necessary reserves, then to priority payments and then to the partners per the agreement.  The General Partner will contract with Creekside Builders, LLC to construct the units and the fee to CB will include a construction management and overhead fee equal to 15% of the direct hard cost excluding land, financing and sales costs. These fees are the only monies to Creekside, Larry Lewter or myself prior to calculation of profit, except for a) direct reimbursement for partnership expenses and b) direct payment to CB for any subcontractor costs that it has to perform.  For example, if CB cannot find a good trim carpenter sub, or cannot find enough trim carpenters, etc., and it decides to undertake this function, it will charge the partnership the same fee it was able to obtain from third parties and will disclose those cases to the partnership. Finally, CB will receive a fee for the use of any of its equipment if it is used in lieu of leasing equipment from others.  At present CB does not own any significant equipment, but it is considering the purchase of a sky track to facilitate and speed up framing, cornice, roofing and drywall spreading. REPORTING We are more than willing to provide reports to track expenses vs. plan. What did you have in mind?  I would like to use some form of internet based reporting. BOOKKEEPING I am not sure what you are referring to by the question, ""Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses?""  Please expand. INVESTOR INPUT We are glad to have the investor's input on design and materials.  As always the question will be who has final say if there is disagreement, but in my experience I have always been able to reach consensus. As you, and I presume Keith, want to be involved to learn as much as possible we would make every effort to be accommodating. CREEKSIDE PROCEEDURES CB procedures for dealing with subs, vendors and professionals is not as formal as your question indicates.  In the EXTREMELY tight labor market obtaining 3 bids for each labor trade is not feasible.  For the professional subs we use those with whom we have developed a previous rapport.  Finally, for vendors they are constantly shopped. PRE-SELECTED PROFESSIONALS, SUBS AND VENDORS Yes there are many different subs that have been identified and I can provide these if you are interested. I know I have not answered everything, but this is a starting point.  Call when you have reviewed and we can discuss further. Sincerely, George Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
Bob, Regarding Patti Sullivan's contributions to the west desk this year, her efforts deserve recognition and a PBR award.  Patti stepped up to fill the gap left by Randy Gay's personal leave.  Patti held together the scheduling group for about 2 month's by working 7days a week during this time.  Patti was always the first one in the office during this time.  Frequently, she would be at work before 4 AM to prepare the daily operation package.  All the traders came to depend on the information Patti provided.   This information has been extremely critical this year due to the pipeline explosion and size of the west desk positions. Please call to discuss cash award. 
Richard, Are you available at 5:30 ET today? 
Jed, I understand you have been contacted regarding a telephone interview to discuss trading opportunities at  Enron.  I am sending you this message to schedule the interview.  Please call or email me with a time that would be convenient for you.  I look forward to speaking with you. Phillip Allen West Gas Trading pallen@enron.com 
Lucy, Here are the actual utility bills versus the cap.  Did we collect these overages?  Let's discuss further?  Remember these bills were paid in July and August.  The usage dates are much earlier.  I have the bills but I can get them to you if need be. 
Bob, Any time tomorrow between 10 am and 1 pm would be good for looking at the plans.  As far as the TV's, what do you need me to do?  Do we need plasma screens or would regular monitors be just as good at a fraction of the cost. 
Phillip, Below is the issues & to do list as we go forward with documenting the requirements for consolidated physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. What we need to focus on is the first bullet in Allan's list; the need for a single set of requirements. Although the meeting with Keith, on Wednesday,  was informative the solution of creating a infinitely dynamic consolidated position screen, will be extremely difficult and time consuming.  Throughout the meeting on Wednesday, Keith alluded to the inability to get consensus amongst the traders on the presentation of the consolidated position, so the solution was to make it so that a trader can arrange the position screen to their liking (much like Excel). What needs to happen on Monday from 3 - 5 is a effort to design a desired layout for the consolidated position screen, this is critical. This does not exclude building a capability to create a more flexible position presentation for the future, but in order to create a plan that can be measured we need firm requirements. Also, to reiterate that the goals of this project is a project plan on consolidate physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. The other issues that have been raised will be capture as projects on to themselves, and will need to be prioritised as efforts outside of this project. I have been involved in most of the meetings and the discussions have been good. I believe there has been good communication between the teams, but now we need to have focus on the objectives we set out to solve. Richard 
From our initial set of meetings with the traders regarding consolidated positions, I think we still have the following issues: We don't have a single point of contact from the trading group.  We've had three meetings which brought out very different issues from different traders.  We really need a single point of contact to help drive the trader requirements and help come to a consensus regarding the requirements. We're getting hit with a lot of different requests, many of which appear to be outside the scope of position consolidation. Things left to do: I think it may be useful to try to formulate a high level project goal to make it as clear as possible what we're trying to accomplish with this project.  It'll help determine which requests fall under the project scope. Go through the list of requests to determine which are in scope for this project and which fall out of scope. For those in scope, work to define relative importance (priority) of each and work with traders to define the exact requirements of each. Define the desired lay out of the position manager screen: main view and all drill downs. Use the above to formulate a project plan. Things requested thus far (no particular order): Inclusion of Sitara physical deals into the TDS position manager and deal ticker. Customized rows and columns in the position manager (ad hoc rows/columns that add up existing position manager rows/columns). New drill down in the position manager to break out positions by: physical, transport, swaps, options, ... Addition of a curve tab to the position manager to show the real-time values of all curves on which the desk has a position. Ability to split the current position grid to allow daily positions to be shown directly above monthly positions.  Each grouped column in the top grid would be tied to a grouped column in the bottom grid. Ability to properly show curve shift for float-for-float deals; determine the appropriate positions to show for each: Gas Daily for monthly index, Physical gas for Nymex, Physical gas for Inside Ferc, Physical gas for Mid market. Ability for TDS to pull valuation results based on a TDS flag instead of using official valuations. Position and P&L aggregation across all gas desks. Ability to include the Gas Price book into TDS: Inclusion of spread options in our systems.  Ability to handle volatility skew and correlations. Ability to revalue all options incrementally throughout the trading day. Approximate delta changes between valuations using instantaneous gamma or a gamma grid. Valuation of Gas Daily options. A new position screen for options (months x strike x delta).  TBD. Inclusion of positions for exotic options currently managed in spreadsheets. Ability to isolate the position change due to changed deals in the position manager. Ability to view change deal P&L in the TDS deal ticker.  Show new deal terms, prior deal terms, and net P&L affect of the change. Eliminate change deals with no economic impact from the TDS deal ticker. Position drill down in the position manager to isolate the impact of individual deals on the position total in a grid cell. Benchmark positions in TDS. Deployment of TDS in Canada. Currency and volume uom conversions. Implicit and explicit position break out issues. -- Allan. PS: Colleen is setting up a meeting tomorrow to discuss the direction for transport.  Hopefully we'll know much better where that part stands at that point. 
Phillip, Below is the issues & to do list as we go forward with documenting the requirements for consolidated physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. What we need to focus on is the first bullet in Allan's list; the need for a single set of requirements. Although the meeting with Keith, on Wednesday,  was informative the solution of creating a infinitely dynamic consolidated position screen, will be extremely difficult and time consuming.  Throughout the meeting on Wednesday, Keith alluded to the inability to get consensus amongst the traders on the presentation of the consolidated position, so the solution was to make it so that a trader can arrange the position screen to their liking (much like Excel). What needs to happen on Monday from 3 - 5 is a effort to design a desired layout for the consolidated position screen, this is critical. This does not exclude building a capability to create a more flexible position presentation for the future, but in order to create a plan that can be measured we need firm requirements. Also, to reiterate that the goals of this project is a project plan on consolidate physical/financial positions and transport trade capture. The other issues that have been raised will be capture as projects on to themselves, and will need to be prioritised as efforts outside of this project. I have been involved in most of the meetings and the discussions have been good. I believe there has been good communication between the teams, but now we need to have focus on the objectives we set out to solve. Richard 
From our initial set of meetings with the traders regarding consolidated positions, I think we still have the following issues: We don't have a single point of contact from the trading group.  We've had three meetings which brought out very different issues from different traders.  We really need a single point of contact to help drive the trader requirements and help come to a consensus regarding the requirements. We're getting hit with a lot of different requests, many of which appear to be outside the scope of position consolidation. Things left to do: I think it may be useful to try to formulate a high level project goal to make it as clear as possible what we're trying to accomplish with this project.  It'll help determine which requests fall under the project scope. Go through the list of requests to determine which are in scope for this project and which fall out of scope. For those in scope, work to define relative importance (priority) of each and work with traders to define the exact requirements of each. Define the desired lay out of the position manager screen: main view and all drill downs. Use the above to formulate a project plan. Things requested thus far (no particular order): Inclusion of Sitara physical deals into the TDS position manager and deal ticker. Customized rows and columns in the position manager (ad hoc rows/columns that add up existing position manager rows/columns). New drill down in the position manager to break out positions by: physical, transport, swaps, options, ... Addition of a curve tab to the position manager to show the real-time values of all curves on which the desk has a position. Ability to split the current position grid to allow daily positions to be shown directly above monthly positions.  Each grouped column in the top grid would be tied to a grouped column in the bottom grid. Ability to properly show curve shift for float-for-float deals; determine the appropriate positions to show for each: Gas Daily for monthly index, Physical gas for Nymex, Physical gas for Inside Ferc, Physical gas for Mid market. Ability for TDS to pull valuation results based on a TDS flag instead of using official valuations. Position and P&L aggregation across all gas desks. Ability to include the Gas Price book into TDS: Inclusion of spread options in our systems.  Ability to handle volatility skew and correlations. Ability to revalue all options incrementally throughout the trading day. Approximate delta changes between valuations using instantaneous gamma or a gamma grid. Valuation of Gas Daily options. A new position screen for options (months x strike x delta).  TBD. Inclusion of positions for exotic options currently managed in spreadsheets. Ability to isolate the position change due to changed deals in the position manager. Ability to view change deal P&L in the TDS deal ticker.  Show new deal terms, prior deal terms, and net P&L affect of the change. Eliminate change deals with no economic impact from the TDS deal ticker. Position drill down in the position manager to isolate the impact of individual deals on the position total in a grid cell. Benchmark positions in TDS. Deployment of TDS in Canada. Currency and volume uom conversions. Implicit and explicit position break out issues. -- Allan. PS: Colleen is setting up a meeting tomorrow to discuss the direction for transport.  Hopefully we'll know much better where that part stands at that point. 
Dave, Here are the names of the west desk members by category.  The origination side is very sparse. Phillip 
Paula, 35 million is fine 
Westgate Enclosed are demographics on the Westgate site from Investor's Alliance. Investor's Alliance says that these demographics are similar to the package on San Marcos that you received earlier. If there are any other questions or information requirements, let me know. Then, let me know your interest level in the Westgate project? San Marcos The property across the street from the Sagewood units in San Marcos is for sale and approved for 134 units.  The land is selling for $2.50 per square foot as it is one of only two remaining approved multifamily parcels in West San Marcos, which now has a moratorium on development. Several new studies we have looked at show that the rents for our duplexes and for these new units are going to be significantly higher, roughly $1.25 per square foot if leased for the entire unit on a 12-month lease and $1.30-$1.40 psf if leased on a 12-month term, but by individual room.  This property will have the best location for student housing of all new projects, just as the duplexes do now. If this project is of serious interest to you, please let me know as there is a very, very short window of opportunity.  The equity requirement is not yet known, but it would be likely to be $300,000 to secure the land.  I will know more on this question later today. Sincerely, George W. Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
There will be a meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 10th at 4:00pm in EB3270 regarding Storage Strategies in the West.  Please mark your calendars. Thank you! Regards, Nancy Hall ENA Denver office 303-575-6490 
Brenda, Please use the second check as the October payment.  If you have already tossed it, let me know so I can mail you another. 
Brenda, Please use the second check as my October payment.  I have my copy of the original deal.  Do you want me to fax this to you? 
Liane, As we discussed yesterday, I am concerned there has been an attempt to manipulate the  El Paso San Juan monthly index.  A single buyer entered the marketplace on both September 26 and 27 and paid above market prices ($4.70-$4.80) for San Juan gas with the intent to distort the index.  At the time of these trades, offers for physical gas at significantly (10 to 15 cents) lower prices were bypassed in order to establish higher trades to report into the index calculation.  Additionally, these trades are out of line with the associated financial swaps for San Juan. We have compiled a list of financial and physical trades executed from September 25 to September 27.  These are the complete list of trades from Enron Online (EOL), Enron's direct phone conversations, and three brokerage firms (Amerex, APB, and Prebon).  Please see the attached spreadsheet for a trade by trade list and a summary.  We have also included a summary of gas daily prices to illustrate the value of San Juan based on several spread relationships.  The two key points from this data are as follows: 1.  The high physical prices on the 26th & 27th (4.75,4,80) are much greater than the high financial trades (4.6375,4.665) on those days. 2.  The spread relationship between San Juan and other points (Socal & Northwest)  is  consistent between the end of September and October gas daily.  It doesn't make sense to have monthly indeces that are dramatically different. I understand you review the trades submitted for outliers.  Hopefully, the trades submitted will reveal counterparty names and you will be able to determine that there was only one buyer in the 4.70's and these trades are outliers.  I wanted to give you some additional points of reference to aid in establishing a reasonable index.  It is Enron's belief that the trades at $4.70 and higher  were above market trades that should be excluded from the calculation of index. It is our desire to have reliable and accurate indeces against which to conduct our physical and financial business.  Please contact me anytime I can assist you towards this goal. Sincerely, Phillip Allen 
STRUCTURE: Typically the structure is a limited partnership with a corporate (or LLC) general partner.  The General Partner owns 1% of the project and carries the liability of construction. LAND OWNERSHIP & LOANS The property would be purchased in the name of the limited partnership and any land loans, land improvements loans and construction loans would be in the name of the limited partnership.  Each of the individual investors and all of the principals in Creekside would also personally guarantee the loans.  If the investor(s) do not sign on the loans, this generally means that a larger amount of cash is required and the investor's share of profits is reduced. All loans for residential construction, that are intended for re-sale, are full recourse loans.  If we are pursuing multifamily rental developments, the construction loans are still full recourse but the mortgage can often be non-recourse. USE OF INITIAL INVESTMENT The initial investment is used for land deposit, engineering & architectural design, soils tests, surveys, filing fees, legal fees for organization and condominium association formation,  and appraisals.  Unlike many real estate investment programs, none of the funds are used for fees to Creekside Builders, LLC.  These professional expenses will be incurred over the estimated 6 month design and approval period. EARLY LAND COSTS The $4,000 per month costs listed in the cash flow as part of land cost represent the extension fees due to the seller for up to 4 months of extensions on closing.  As an alternative, we can close into a land loan at probably 70% of appraised value.  With a land value equal to the purchase price of $680,000 this would mean a land loan of $476,000 with estimated monthly interest payments of $3,966, given a 10% annual interest rate, plus approximately 1.25% of the loan amount for closing costs and loan fees. EQUITY AT IMPROVEMENT LOAN Once the site plan is approved by the City of Austin, the City will require the development entity to post funds for fiscal improvements, referred to as the ""fiscals"".  This cost represents a bond for the completion of improvements that COA considers vital and these funds are released once the improvements have been completed and accepted by COA.  This release will be for 90% of the cost with the remaining 10% released one year after completion.  Releases can be granted once every 90 days and you should expect that the release would occur 6 months after the start of lot improvement construction.  These fiscals are usually posted in cash or an irrevocable letter of credit.  As such, they have to be counted as a development cost, even though they are not spent.  Because they are not spent no interest is charged on these funds. The lot improvement loan is typically 75% of the appraised value of a finished lot, which I suspect will be at least $20,000 and potentially as high as $25,000.  This would produce a loan amount of  $15,000 on $20,000 per lot.  With estimated per lot improvement costs of $9,000, 'fiscals' at $2,000 and the land cost at $8,000 , total improved lot cost is $19,000 which means $0 to $4,000 per lot in total equity.  The investment prior to obtaining the improvement loan would count towards any equity requirement provided it was for direct costs.  Thus, the additional equity for the improvement loan would be $0-$184,000.   Even if the maximum loan would cover all costs, it is unlikely the bank would allow reimbursement of funds spent. The higher estimates of equity investments are shown in the preliminary proforma to be on the safe side.  The engineer is preparing a tentative site layout with an initial evaluation of the phasing, which can significantly reduce the cash equity requirement. Phasing works as follows.  If the first phase was say 40 units, the total lot improvement cost might average $31,000 per lot.   Of this, probably $13,000 would be for improvements and $19,000 for the land cost.  The improvements are higher to cover large one time up front costs for design costs, the entry road, water treatment costs, perimeter fencing and landscaping, and so on, as well as for 100% of the land.  The land loan for undeveloped lots would be 70% of the appraised raw lot value, which I would estimate as $10,000 per lot for a loan value of $7,000 per lot.  Then the loan value for each improved lot would be $15,000 per lot.  This would give you a total loan of $992,000, total cost of $1,232,645 for equity required of $241,000.  This was not presented in the initial analysis as the phasing is depended on a more careful assessment by the Civil Engineer as the separate phases must each be able to stand on its own from a utility standpoint. CONSTRUCTION LOANS There are three types of  construction loans.  First, is a speculative (spec) loan that is taken out prior to any pre-sales activity.  Second,  is a construction loan for a pre-sold unit, but the loan remains in the builder/developers name.  Third, is a pre-sold unit with the construction loan in the name of the buyer.  We expect to have up to 8 spec loans to start the project and expect all other loans to be pre-sold units with loans in the name of the builder/developer.  We do not expect to have any construction loans in the name of the buyers, as such loans are too difficult to manage and please new buyers unfamiliar with the process. Spec loans will be for 70% to 75% of value and construction loans for pre-sold units, if the construction loan is from the mortgage lender,  will be from 80% to 95% of value. DISBURSEMENTS Disbursements will be handled by the General Partner to cover current and near term third party costs, then to necessary reserves, then to priority payments and then to the partners per the agreement.  The General Partner will contract with Creekside Builders, LLC to construct the units and the fee to CB will include a construction management and overhead fee equal to 15% of the direct hard cost excluding land, financing and sales costs. These fees are the only monies to Creekside, Larry Lewter or myself prior to calculation of profit, except for a) direct reimbursement for partnership expenses and b) direct payment to CB for any subcontractor costs that it has to perform.  For example, if CB cannot find a good trim carpenter sub, or cannot find enough trim carpenters, etc., and it decides to undertake this function, it will charge the partnership the same fee it was able to obtain from third parties and will disclose those cases to the partnership. Finally, CB will receive a fee for the use of any of its equipment if it is used in lieu of leasing equipment from others.  At present CB does not own any significant equipment, but it is considering the purchase of a sky track to facilitate and speed up framing, cornice, roofing and drywall spreading. REPORTING We are more than willing to provide reports to track expenses vs. plan. What did you have in mind?  I would like to use some form of internet based reporting. BOOKKEEPING I am not sure what you are referring to by the question, ""Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses?""  Please expand. INVESTOR INPUT We are glad to have the investor's input on design and materials.  As always the question will be who has final say if there is disagreement, but in my experience I have always been able to reach consensus. As you, and I presume Keith, want to be involved to learn as much as possible we would make every effort to be accommodating. CREEKSIDE PROCEEDURES CB procedures for dealing with subs, vendors and professionals is not as formal as your question indicates.  In the EXTREMELY tight labor market obtaining 3 bids for each labor trade is not feasible.  For the professional subs we use those with whom we have developed a previous rapport.  Finally, for vendors they are constantly shopped. PRE-SELECTED PROFESSIONALS, SUBS AND VENDORS Yes there are many different subs that have been identified and I can provide these if you are interested. I know I have not answered everything, but this is a starting point.  Call when you have reviewed and we can discuss further. Sincerely, George Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
STRUCTURE: Typically the structure is a limited partnership with a corporate (or LLC) general partner.  The General Partner owns 1% of the project and carries the liability of construction. LAND OWNERSHIP & LOANS The property would be purchased in the name of the limited partnership and any land loans, land improvements loans and construction loans would be in the name of the limited partnership.  Each of the individual investors and all of the principals in Creekside would also personally guarantee the loans.  If the investor(s) do not sign on the loans, this generally means that a larger amount of cash is required and the investor's share of profits is reduced. All loans for residential construction, that are intended for re-sale, are full recourse loans.  If we are pursuing multifamily rental developments, the construction loans are still full recourse but the mortgage can often be non-recourse. USE OF INITIAL INVESTMENT The initial investment is used for land deposit, engineering & architectural design, soils tests, surveys, filing fees, legal fees for organization and condominium association formation,  and appraisals.  Unlike many real estate investment programs, none of the funds are used for fees to Creekside Builders, LLC.  These professional expenses will be incurred over the estimated 6 month design and approval period. EARLY LAND COSTS The $4,000 per month costs listed in the cash flow as part of land cost represent the extension fees due to the seller for up to 4 months of extensions on closing.  As an alternative, we can close into a land loan at probably 70% of appraised value.  With a land value equal to the purchase price of $680,000 this would mean a land loan of $476,000 with estimated monthly interest payments of $3,966, given a 10% annual interest rate, plus approximately 1.25% of the loan amount for closing costs and loan fees. EQUITY AT IMPROVEMENT LOAN Once the site plan is approved by the City of Austin, the City will require the development entity to post funds for fiscal improvements, referred to as the ""fiscals"".  This cost represents a bond for the completion of improvements that COA considers vital and these funds are released once the improvements have been completed and accepted by COA.  This release will be for 90% of the cost with the remaining 10% released one year after completion.  Releases can be granted once every 90 days and you should expect that the release would occur 6 months after the start of lot improvement construction.  These fiscals are usually posted in cash or an irrevocable letter of credit.  As such, they have to be counted as a development cost, even though they are not spent.  Because they are not spent no interest is charged on these funds. The lot improvement loan is typically 75% of the appraised value of a finished lot, which I suspect will be at least $20,000 and potentially as high as $25,000.  This would produce a loan amount of  $15,000 on $20,000 per lot.  With estimated per lot improvement costs of $9,000, 'fiscals' at $2,000 and the land cost at $8,000 , total improved lot cost is $19,000 which means $0 to $4,000 per lot in total equity.  The investment prior to obtaining the improvement loan would count towards any equity requirement provided it was for direct costs.  Thus, the additional equity for the improvement loan would be $0-$184,000.   Even if the maximum loan would cover all costs, it is unlikely the bank would allow reimbursement of funds spent. The higher estimates of equity investments are shown in the preliminary proforma to be on the safe side.  The engineer is preparing a tentative site layout with an initial evaluation of the phasing, which can significantly reduce the cash equity requirement. Phasing works as follows.  If the first phase was say 40 units, the total lot improvement cost might average $31,000 per lot.   Of this, probably $13,000 would be for improvements and $19,000 for the land cost.  The improvements are higher to cover large one time up front costs for design costs, the entry road, water treatment costs, perimeter fencing and landscaping, and so on, as well as for 100% of the land.  The land loan for undeveloped lots would be 70% of the appraised raw lot value, which I would estimate as $10,000 per lot for a loan value of $7,000 per lot.  Then the loan value for each improved lot would be $15,000 per lot.  This would give you a total loan of $992,000, total cost of $1,232,645 for equity required of $241,000.  This was not presented in the initial analysis as the phasing is depended on a more careful assessment by the Civil Engineer as the separate phases must each be able to stand on its own from a utility standpoint. CONSTRUCTION LOANS There are three types of  construction loans.  First, is a speculative (spec) loan that is taken out prior to any pre-sales activity.  Second,  is a construction loan for a pre-sold unit, but the loan remains in the builder/developers name.  Third, is a pre-sold unit with the construction loan in the name of the buyer.  We expect to have up to 8 spec loans to start the project and expect all other loans to be pre-sold units with loans in the name of the builder/developer.  We do not expect to have any construction loans in the name of the buyers, as such loans are too difficult to manage and please new buyers unfamiliar with the process. Spec loans will be for 70% to 75% of value and construction loans for pre-sold units, if the construction loan is from the mortgage lender,  will be from 80% to 95% of value. DISBURSEMENTS Disbursements will be handled by the General Partner to cover current and near term third party costs, then to necessary reserves, then to priority payments and then to the partners per the agreement.  The General Partner will contract with Creekside Builders, LLC to construct the units and the fee to CB will include a construction management and overhead fee equal to 15% of the direct hard cost excluding land, financing and sales costs. These fees are the only monies to Creekside, Larry Lewter or myself prior to calculation of profit, except for a) direct reimbursement for partnership expenses and b) direct payment to CB for any subcontractor costs that it has to perform.  For example, if CB cannot find a good trim carpenter sub, or cannot find enough trim carpenters, etc., and it decides to undertake this function, it will charge the partnership the same fee it was able to obtain from third parties and will disclose those cases to the partnership. Finally, CB will receive a fee for the use of any of its equipment if it is used in lieu of leasing equipment from others.  At present CB does not own any significant equipment, but it is considering the purchase of a sky track to facilitate and speed up framing, cornice, roofing and drywall spreading. REPORTING We are more than willing to provide reports to track expenses vs. plan. What did you have in mind?  I would like to use some form of internet based reporting. BOOKKEEPING I am not sure what you are referring to by the question, ""Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses?""  Please expand. INVESTOR INPUT We are glad to have the investor's input on design and materials.  As always the question will be who has final say if there is disagreement, but in my experience I have always been able to reach consensus. As you, and I presume Keith, want to be involved to learn as much as possible we would make every effort to be accommodating. CREEKSIDE PROCEEDURES CB procedures for dealing with subs, vendors and professionals is not as formal as your question indicates.  In the EXTREMELY tight labor market obtaining 3 bids for each labor trade is not feasible.  For the professional subs we use those with whom we have developed a previous rapport.  Finally, for vendors they are constantly shopped. PRE-SELECTED PROFESSIONALS, SUBS AND VENDORS Yes there are many different subs that have been identified and I can provide these if you are interested. I know I have not answered everything, but this is a starting point.  Call when you have reviewed and we can discuss further. Sincerely, George Richards President, Creekside Builders, LLC - winmail.dat 
Jeff, ? Is the closing today?? After reviewing the  agreement?I find it isn't binding as far as I can determine.? It is  too vague and it doesn't sound like anything an attorney or title company  would?draft for a real estate closing--but, of course, I could be  wrong.? ? If this?closing is going to take place without  this agreement then there is no point in me  following up on this?document's validity.? ? I will just need to go back to my closing documents  and see what's there and find out where I am with that and deal with this as  best I can. ? I guess I was expecting something that would be an  exhibit to a recordable document or something a little more exact, or  rather?sort of a contract.? This isn't either.? I tried to get a  real estate atty on the phone last night but he was out of pocket.? I  talked to a crim. atty friend and he said this is out of his area but doesn't  sound binding to him.? ? I will go back to mine and Phillip Allen's  transaction?and take a look at that but as vague and general as this is I  doubt that my signature? is even needed to complete this transaction.?  I am in after 12 noon if there is any need to contact me regarding the  closing. ? I really do not want to hold up anything or  generate more work for myself and I don't want to insult or annoy anyone but  this paper really doesn't seem to be something required for a closing.? In  the event you do need my signature on something like this I would rather have  time to have it reviewed before I accept it. ? Brenda ? ? 
Chris, What is the latest with PG&E?  We have been having good discussions regarding EOL. Call me when you can. X37041 
Greg, Happy B-day. Email me your phone # and I will call you. 
Kathy, Regarding the guest password for gas daily, can you please relay the information to Mike Grigsby at 37031 so he can pass it along to the user at gas daily today.  I will be out of the office on Friday. thank you 
John, Denver's short rockies position  beyond 2002 is created by their Trailblazer transport.  They are unhedged 15,000/d in 2003 and 25,000/d in 2004 and 2005. They are scrubbing all their books and booking the Hubert deal on Wednesday and Thursday. 
George, Below is a list of questions that Keith and I had regarding the Westgate project: Ownership Structure What will be the ownership structure? Limited partnership? General partner? What are all the legal entities that will be involved and in what capacity(regarding ownership and liabilities)? Who owns the land? improvements? Who holds the various loans? Is the land collateral? Investment What happens to initial investment? Is it used to purchase land for cash?Secure future loans? Why is the land cost spread out on the cash flow statement? When is the 700,000 actually needed? Now or for the land closing? Investment schedule? Investment Return Is Equity Repayment the return of the original investment? Is the plan to wait until the last unit is sold and closed before profits are distributed? Debt Which entity is the borrower for each loan and what recourse or collateral is associated with each loan? Improvement Construction Are these the only two loans?  Looks like it from the cash flow statement. Terms of each loan? Uses of Funds How will disbursements be made?  By whom? What type of bank account?  Controls on max disbursement? Internet viewing for investors? Reports to track expenses vs plan? Bookkeeping procedures to record actual expenses? What is the relationship of Creekside Builders to the project?  Do you get paid a markup on subcontractors as a general contractor and paid gain out of profits? Do you or Larry receive any money in the form of salary or personal expenses before the ultimate payout of profits? Design and Construction When will design be complete? What input will investors have in selecting design and materials for units? What level of investor involvement will be possible during construction planning and permitting? Does Creekside have specific procedures for dealing with subcontractors, vendors, and other professionals? Such as always getting 3 bids, payment schedules, or reference checking? Are there any specific companies or individuals that you already plan to use? Names? These questions are probably very basic to you, but as a first time investor in a project like this it is new to me.  Also, I want to learn as much as possible from the process. Phillip 
Enclosed is the preliminary proforma for the Westgate property is Austin that we told you about.  As you can tell from the proforma this project should produce a truly exceptional return of over 40% per year over 3 years. This is especially attractive when the project is in a market as strong as Austin and we are introducing new product that in a very low price range for this market.  This is the best project in terms of risk and reward that we have uncovered to date in the Austin market. The project does have approved zoning and will only require a site plan.  As it is in the ""Smart Growth Corridor"" area designated by the City of Austin for preferred development, this will be fast tracked and should be complete in less than 6 months.  Additionally, many of the current and more severe water treatment ordinances have been waived.  I have estimated the lot improvement costs based on a 28 lot development we investigated in North Austin, which included a detention/retention and filtration pond and street widening.  Even though this property is not likely to require street widening and will have less of a detention/retention and filtration pond requirement, I used this data to be cautious. The Lone Star gas line easement in the lower portion of the property is not expected to impact sales significantly.  Other projects have been quite successful with identical relationships to this pipeline, such as the adjoining single family residential and a project at St. Edwards University. As with most infill projects, the quality of the surrounding neighborhoods is uneven.  We have included a fence around the entire property, but may only put it on Westgate and Cameron Loop.  Gated communities are far preferred so this is a good idea for both screening and current buyer preferences. The seller accepted our offer Thursday evening with a price of $680,000 and an extended escrow.  This will enable us to probably obtain an approved site plan before closing on the contract, which will mean that we can close into an A&D Loan rather than into a land loan and then an improvement loan. This analysis shows your investment at $700,000 for a 50% interest in the profits of the project.  As we discussed in San Marcos, we can also discuss having you invest only in the lots, sell the lots to the construction entity with your profit in the lot.  I believe this would facilitate the use of a 1031 Exchange of the proceeds from this deal into another project that is a rental deal or at least into the land for a rental project that would then be the equity for that project.  You would need to discuss this with an exchange expert first.  Larry Lewter knows an expert in the field in San Antonio if you do not know anyone. I will send you a package on the property that was prepared by the broker, by Airborne Express today for Saturday delivery. Once you have read the package and reviewed this proforma, we would want to schedule a tour of the site and the area.  Please get back to me as soon as your schedule permits regarding the site visit and feel free to call at any time.  You can reach me over the weekend and in the evening at either 512-338-1119 or 512-338-1110.  My cell phone is 512-748-7495 and the fax is 512-338-1103.   I look forward to hearing from you and to working with you on this project that is sure to be a major winner. I regret that it took so long to get back to you, but we had some unusual events these past few weeks.  A small freakish wind storm with severe 60+mpg downdrafts hit the South part of Austin where we are building 10 town homes. One of these units had just had the roof decked with the siding scheduled to start the next day.  The severe downdraft hitting the decked roof was enough to knock it down.  The City shut down the project for a week and it took another week to get every thing back on tract.  Then last week I had to take my wife  to emergency.  She has a bulge in the material between the vertebra in her spine and it causes her extreme pain and has kept her bedridden this past week..  There is nothing like having your wife incapacitated to realize the enormous number of things she does everyday.   Fortunately, it looks as if she will be ok in the long run. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - Westgate Proforma-Phillip Allen.xls 
George, Here sales numbers from Reagan: As you can see his units sold at a variety of prices per square foot.  The 1308/1308 model seems to have the most data and looks most similiar to the units you are selling.  At  2.7 MM, my bid is .70/sf higher than his units under construction.  I am having a hard time justifying paying much more with competition on the way.  The price I am bidding is higher than any deals actually done to date. Let me know what you think.  I will follow up with an email and phone call about Cherry Creek.  I am sure Deborah Yates let you know that the bid was rejected on the De Ville property. Phillip Allen 
Jeff, What is up with Burnet? 
Jeff, I need to see the site plan for Burnet.  Remember I must get written approval from Brenda Key Stone before I can sell this property and she has concerns about the way the property will be subdivided.    I would also like to review the closing statements as soon as possible. 
Lucy, I want to have an accurate rent roll as soon as possible. I faxed you a copy of this file.  You can fill in on the computer or just write in the correct amounts and I will input. 
Brenda, I checked my records and I mailed check #1178 for the normal amount on August 28th.  I mailed it to 4303 Pate Rd. #29, College Station, TX 77845.  I will go ahead and mail you another check.  If the first one shows up you can treat the 2nd as payment for October. I know your concerns about the site plan.  I will not proceed without getting the details and getting your approval. I will find that amortization schedule and send it soon. 
Lucy, You wrote fewer checks this month.  Spent more money on Materials and less on Labor. June  July  August Total Materials  2929  4085  4801 Services  53  581  464 Labor   3187  3428  2770 Here are my questions on the August bank statement (attached): 1.  Check 1406  Walmart    Description and unit? 2.  Check 1410  Crumps     Detail description and unit? 3.  Check 1411  Lucy      What is this? 4.  Check 1415  Papes      Detail description and units? 5.  Checks 1416, 1417, and 1425  Why overtime? 6.  Check 1428    Ralph's   What unit? 7.  Check 1438    Walmart?    Description and unit? Try and pull together the support for these items and get back to me. 
Phillip, Attached is the list.  Have your people fill in the columns highlighted in yellow.  As best can we will try not to overlap on accounts. Thanks, Mike 
Enclosed is the preliminary proforma for the Westgate property is Austin that we told you about.  As you can tell from the proforma this project should produce a truly exceptional return of over 40% per year over 3 years. This is especially attractive when the project is in a market as strong as Austin and we are introducing new product that in a very low price range for this market.  This is the best project in terms of risk and reward that we have uncovered to date in the Austin market. The project does have approved zoning and will only require a site plan.  As it is in the ""Smart Growth Corridor"" area designated by the City of Austin for preferred development, this will be fast tracked and should be complete in less than 6 months.  Additionally, many of the current and more severe water treatment ordinances have been waived.  I have estimated the lot improvement costs based on a 28 lot development we investigated in North Austin, which included a detention/retention and filtration pond and street widening.  Even though this property is not likely to require street widening and will have less of a detention/retention and filtration pond requirement, I used this data to be cautious. The Lone Star gas line easement in the lower portion of the property is not expected to impact sales significantly.  Other projects have been quite successful with identical relationships to this pipeline, such as the adjoining single family residential and a project at St. Edwards University. As with most infill projects, the quality of the surrounding neighborhoods is uneven.  We have included a fence around the entire property, but may only put it on Westgate and Cameron Loop.  Gated communities are far preferred so this is a good idea for both screening and current buyer preferences. The seller accepted our offer Thursday evening with a price of $680,000 and an extended escrow.  This will enable us to probably obtain an approved site plan before closing on the contract, which will mean that we can close into an A&D Loan rather than into a land loan and then an improvement loan. This analysis shows your investment at $700,000 for a 50% interest in the profits of the project.  As we discussed in San Marcos, we can also discuss having you invest only in the lots, sell the lots to the construction entity with your profit in the lot.  I believe this would facilitate the use of a 1031 Exchange of the proceeds from this deal into another project that is a rental deal or at least into the land for a rental project that would then be the equity for that project.  You would need to discuss this with an exchange expert first.  Larry Lewter knows an expert in the field in San Antonio if you do not know anyone. I will send you a package on the property that was prepared by the broker, by Airborne Express today for Saturday delivery. Once you have read the package and reviewed this proforma, we would want to schedule a tour of the site and the area.  Please get back to me as soon as your schedule permits regarding the site visit and feel free to call at any time.  You can reach me over the weekend and in the evening at either 512-338-1119 or 512-338-1110.  My cell phone is 512-748-7495 and the fax is 512-338-1103.   I look forward to hearing from you and to working with you on this project that is sure to be a major winner. I regret that it took so long to get back to you, but we had some unusual events these past few weeks.  A small freakish wind storm with severe 60+mpg downdrafts hit the South part of Austin where we are building 10 town homes. One of these units had just had the roof decked with the siding scheduled to start the next day.  The severe downdraft hitting the decked roof was enough to knock it down.  The City shut down the project for a week and it took another week to get every thing back on tract.  Then last week I had to take my wife  to emergency.  She has a bulge in the material between the vertebra in her spine and it causes her extreme pain and has kept her bedridden this past week..  There is nothing like having your wife incapacitated to realize the enormous number of things she does everyday.   Fortunately, it looks as if she will be ok in the long run. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - Westgate Proforma-Phillip Allen.xls 
Jeff, I received the rent roll.  I am going to be in San Marcos this weekend but I am booked with stage coach.  I will drive by Friday evening. I will let you know next week if I need to see the inside.  Can you find out when Chelsea Villa last changed hands and for what price? What about getting a look at the site plans for the Burnet deal.  Remember we have to get Brenda happy. 
9/8  9/7  diff Socal  36,600  37,200  -600 NWPL  -51,000  -51,250  250 San Juan -32,500  -32,000  -500 The reason the benchmark report shows net selling San Juan is that the transport positions were rolled in on 9/8.  This added 800 shorts to San Juan and 200 longs to Socal.  Before this adjustment we bought 300 San Juan and sold 800 Socal. 
why is aeco basis so low on the list?  Is NWPL mapped differently than AECO? 
Jeff, You would clearly receive a commission on a deal on the sagewood. I am surprised by your request for payment on any type of project in which I might become involved with Creekside.  Are you in the business of brokering properties or contacts?  Is your position based on a legal or what you perceive to be an ethical issue?  Did you propose we look at developing a project from scratch? I am not prepared to pay more than 2.7 for sagewood yet. 
I was aware that Regan Lehman, the lot developer for the entire 70 lot duplex project, was selling his units in the $180's,  He does have a much lower basis in the lots than anyone else, but the prime differences are due to a) he is selling them during construction and b) they are smaller units. We do not know the exact size of each of his units, but we believe one of the duplexes is a 1164/1302 sq ft. plan.  This would produce an average sq footage of 1233, which would be $73.80 psf at $182,000.  (I thought his sales price was $187,000.)  At this price psf our 1,376 sf unit would sell for $203,108. What is more important, in my view, is a) the rental rate and b) the rent-ability.  You have all of our current rental and cost data for your own evaluation.  As for rent-ability, I believe that we have shown that the 3-bedroom, 3.5 bath is strongly preferred in this market.    In fact, if we were able to purchase additional lots from Regan we would build 4 bedroom units along with the 3-bedroom plan. Phillip, I will call you today to go over this more thoroughly. Sincerely, George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC 
Enclosed is the preliminary proforma for the Westgate property is Austin that we told you about.  As you can tell from the proforma this project should produce a truly exceptional return of over 40% per year over 3 years. This is especially attractive when the project is in a market as strong as Austin and we are introducing new product that in a very low price range for this market.  This is the best project in terms of risk and reward that we have uncovered to date in the Austin market. The project does have approved zoning and will only require a site plan.  As it is in the ""Smart Growth Corridor"" area designated by the City of Austin for preferred development, this will be fast tracked and should be complete in less than 6 months.  Additionally, many of the current and more severe water treatment ordinances have been waived.  I have estimated the lot improvement costs based on a 28 lot development we investigated in North Austin, which included a detention/retention and filtration pond and street widening.  Even though this property is not likely to require street widening and will have less of a detention/retention and filtration pond requirement, I used this data to be cautious. The Lone Star gas line easement in the lower portion of the property is not expected to impact sales significantly.  Other projects have been quite successful with identical relationships to this pipeline, such as the adjoining single family residential and a project at St. Edwards University. As with most infill projects, the quality of the surrounding neighborhoods is uneven.  We have included a fence around the entire property, but may only put it on Westgate and Cameron Loop.  Gated communities are far preferred so this is a good idea for both screening and current buyer preferences. The seller accepted our offer Thursday evening with a price of $680,000 and an extended escrow.  This will enable us to probably obtain an approved site plan before closing on the contract, which will mean that we can close into an A&D Loan rather than into a land loan and then an improvement loan. This analysis shows your investment at $700,000 for a 50% interest in the profits of the project.  As we discussed in San Marcos, we can also discuss having you invest only in the lots, sell the lots to the construction entity with your profit in the lot.  I believe this would facilitate the use of a 1031 Exchange of the proceeds from this deal into another project that is a rental deal or at least into the land for a rental project that would then be the equity for that project.  You would need to discuss this with an exchange expert first.  Larry Lewter knows an expert in the field in San Antonio if you do not know anyone. I will send you a package on the property that was prepared by the broker, by Airborne Express today for Saturday delivery. Once you have read the package and reviewed this proforma, we would want to schedule a tour of the site and the area.  Please get back to me as soon as your schedule permits regarding the site visit and feel free to call at any time.  You can reach me over the weekend and in the evening at either 512-338-1119 or 512-338-1110.  My cell phone is 512-748-7495 and the fax is 512-338-1103.   I look forward to hearing from you and to working with you on this project that is sure to be a major winner. I regret that it took so long to get back to you, but we had some unusual events these past few weeks.  A small freakish wind storm with severe 60+mpg downdrafts hit the South part of Austin where we are building 10 town homes. One of these units had just had the roof decked with the siding scheduled to start the next day.  The severe downdraft hitting the decked roof was enough to knock it down.  The City shut down the project for a week and it took another week to get every thing back on tract.  Then last week I had to take my wife  to emergency.  She has a bulge in the material between the vertebra in her spine and it causes her extreme pain and has kept her bedridden this past week..  There is nothing like having your wife incapacitated to realize the enormous number of things she does everyday.   Fortunately, it looks as if she will be ok in the long run. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - Westgate Proforma-Phillip Allen.xls 
_________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com. Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at http://profiles.msn.com. - utility.xls - utility.xls 
Executive Impact & Influence Program * IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED - Do Not Delete * As part of the Executive Impact and Influence Program, each participant is asked to gather input on the participant's own management styles and practices as experienced by their immediate manager, each direct report, and up to eight peers/colleagues. You have been requested to provide feedback for a participant attending the next program.  Your input (i.e., a Self assessment, Manager assessment, Direct Report assessment, or Peer/Colleague assessment) will be combined with the input of others and used by the program participant to develop an action plan to improve his/her management styles and practices. It is important that you complete this assessment NO LATER THAN CLOSE OF BUSINESS Thursday, September 14. Since the feedback is such an important part of the program, the participant will be asked to cancel his/her attendance if not enough feedback is received.  Therefore, your feedback is critical. To complete your assessment, please click on the following link or simply open your internet browser and go to: http://www.fsddatasvc.com/enron Your unique ID for each participant you have been asked to rate is: Unique ID - Participant EVH3JY - John Arnold ER93FX - John Lavorato EPEXWX - Hunter Shively If you experience technical problems, please call Dennis Ward at FSD Data Services, 713-942-8436.  If you have any questions about this process, you may contact Debbie Nowak at Enron, 713-853-3304, or Christi Smith at Keilty, Goldsmith & Company, 858-450-2554. Thank you for your participation. 
Larry, Just a note to touch base on the sagewood townhomes and other development opportunities. I stumbled across some other duplexes for sale on the same street. that were built by Reagan Lehmann.  22 Units were sold for around $2 million. ($182,000/duplex).  I spoke to Reagan and he indicated that he had more units under construction that would be available in the 180's.  Are the units he is selling significantly different from yours?  He mentioned some of the units are the 1308 floor plan.  My bid of 2.7 million is almost $193,000/duplex. As far as being an investor in a new project, I am still very interested. Call or email with your thoughts. 
Ina, 
Ina, Can you pull Tori K.'s and Martin Cuilla's resumes and past performance reviews from H.R. 
The commercial support people that you and Hunter want to make commercial managers. 
Program 
John Lavorato-M Mike Grigsby-D Keith Holst-D Frank Ermis-D Steve South-D Janie Tholt-D Scott Neal-P Hunter Shively-P Tom Martin-P John Arnold-P 
Mark, Here is a spreadsheet detailing our September Socal trades. (I did not distinguish between buys vs. sells.) Phillip 
Richard, Compare your california production to the numbers in the 2000 California Gas Report.  It shows 410.  But again that might be just what the two utilities 
Cooper, Can you give access to the new west power site to Jay Reitmeyer.  He is an analyst in our group. 
Program 
John Lavorato-M Mike Grigsby-D Keith Holst-D Frank Ermis-D Steve South-D Janie Tholt-D Scott Neal-P Hunter Shively-P Tom Martin-P John Arnold-P 
John Lavorato-M Mike Grigsby-D Keith Holst-D Frank Ermis-D Steve South-D Janie Tholt-D Scott Neal-P Hunter Shively-P Tom Martin-P 
Mark, Here is a spreadsheet detailing our September Socal trades. (I did not distinguish between buys vs. sells.) Phillip 
How is your racing going?  What category are you up to? 
Greg, Got your message.  Good luck on the bike ride. What were you doing to your apartment?  Are you setting up a studio? The kids are back in school.  Otherwise just work is going on here. 
Attached  are two files that illustrate the following: As prices rose, supply increased and demand decreased.  Now prices are beginning to fall in response these market responses. 
Mark, Here is a spreadsheet detailing our September Socal trades. (I did not distinguish between buys vs. sells.) 
Mark, Were you able to log in to enron online and find socal today? I will follow up with a list of our physical deals done yesterday and today. 
Brenda Can you send me your address in College Station. 
Sorry, Report as of August 24, 2000 
Mark, The following is a guest password that will allow you temporary view only access to EnronOnline.  Please note, the user ID and password are CASE SENSITIVE. Guest User ID:  GNA45925 Guest Password: YJ53KU42 Log in to www.enrononline.com and install shockwave using instructions below.  I have set up a composite page with western basis and cash prices to help you filter through the products.  The title of the composite page is Mark's Page.  If you have any problems logging in you can call me at (713)853-7041 or Kathy Moore, EnronOnline HelpDesk, 713/853-HELP (4357). The Shockwave installer can be found within ""About EnronOnline"" on the home page.  After opening ""About EnronOnline"", using right scroll bar, go to the bottom.  Click on ""download Shockwave"" and follow the directions.  After loading Shockwave, shut down and reopen browser (i.e. Microsoft Internet Explorer/Netscape). I hope you will find this site useful. Sincerely, Phillip Allen 
Mark, Attached is a spreadsheet that lists the end of day midmarkets for socal basis and socal/san juan spreads.  I listed the days during bidweek that reflected financial trading for Socal Index and the actual gas daily prints before and after bidweek. The following observations can be made: July 1.  The basis market  anticipated a Socal/San Juan spread of .81 vs actual of .79 2.  Perceived index was 4.95 vs actual of 4.91 3.  Socal Gas Daily Swaps are trading at a significant premium. Aug. 1.  The basis market  anticipated a Socal/San Juan spread of 1.04 vs actual of .99 2.  Perceived index was 4.54 vs actual of 4.49 3.  Gas daily spreads were much wider before and after bidweek than the monthly postings 4.  Socal Gas Daily Swaps are trading at a significant premium. Enron Online will allow you to monitor the value of financial swaps against the index, as well as, spreads to other locations.  Please call with any questions. Phillip 
Suzanne, Can you give me more details or email  the plan prior to meeting?  What do I need to provide besides headcount? Otherwise any afternoon next week would be fine 
Colleen, Please add Mike Grigsby to the distribution. On another note, do you have any idea how Patti is holding up? 
Brad, With regard to Tori Kuykendall, I would like to promote her to commercial manager instead of converting her from a commercial support manager to an associate.  Her duties since the beginning of the year have been those of a commercial manager.  I have no doubt that she will compare favorably to others in that category at year end. Martin Cuilla on the central desk is in a similiar situation as Tori. Hunter would like Martin handled the same as Tori. Let me know if there are any issues. 
Bruce, Can you stop by and set up my reuters. 
Lucy, The rent roll spreadsheet is starting to look better.  See if you can add these modifications: 1.  Use a formula in column E.  Add the value in column C to column D.  It should read =c6+d6.  Then copy this formula to the rows below. 2.  Column H needs a formula.  Subtract amount paid from amount owed. =e6-g6. 3.  Column F is filled with the #### sign.  this is because the column width is too narrow.  Use you mouse to click on the line beside the letter F.  Hold the left mouse button down and drag the column wider. 4.  After we get the rent part fixed, lets bring the database columns up to this sheet and place them to the right in columns J and beyond. 
Lucy, I got your email with the attachment.  Let's work together today to get this done 
Lucy, We can discuss your email later.  How is progress on creating the spreadsheets.  You will probably need to close the file before you attach to an email.  It is 2:00.  I really want to make some progress on these two files. 
Lucy, Please open this excel file and input the rents and names due for this week. Then email the file back. 
Open the ""utility"" spreadsheet and try to complete the analysis of whether it is better to be a small commercial or a medium commercial (LP-1). You will need to get the usage for that meter for the last 12 months.  If we have one year of data, we can tell which will be cheaper.  Use the rates described in the spreadsheet.  This is a great chance for you to practice excel. 
Mac, Thanks for the research report on EOG.  Here are my observations: Gas Sales 916,000/day x 365 days = 334,340,000/year Estimated Gas Prices $985,721,000/334,340,000= $2.95/mcf Actual gas prices are around $1.00/mcf higher and rising. Recalc of EPS with more accurate gas prices: (334,340,000 mct X $1/mcf)/116,897,000 shares outst = $2.86 additional EPS X 12 P/E multiple = $34 a share That is just a back of the envelope valuation based on gas prices.  I think crude price are undervalued by the tune of $10/share. Current price 37 Nat. Gas 34 Crude  10 Total  81 Can you take a look at these numbers and play devil's advocate?  To me this looks like the best stock to own Also can you send me a report on Calpine, Tosco, and SLB? Thank you, Phillip 
Phillip, We have been working on different apartments today and having to listen to different, people about what Mary is saying should i be worried? ants seem to be invading my apartment.You got my other fax's Wade is working on the bulletin board that I need up so that I can let tenants know about what is going on.Gave #25 a notice about having to many people staying in that apt and that problem has been resolved.Also I have a tenant in #29 that is complaining about #28 using fowl language.I sent #28 a lease violation we will see how that goes call you tomorrow Thanx Lucy ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
Phillip, The a/c I bought today for #17 cost $166.71 pd by ck#1429 8/16/00 at WAL-MART.Also on 8/15/00 Ralph's Appliance Centerck#1428 frig & stove for apt #20-B IVOICE # 000119 AMT=308.56 (STOVE=150.00 (frig=125.00)DEL CHRG=15.00\TAX=18.56 TOTAL=308.56.FAX MACHINE FOR FFICE CK # 1427=108.25 FROM sTEELMAN OFFICE PRODUC TS.                                           Thanxs, Lucy ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
Phillip, Today was one of those days because Wade had to go pay his fine and I had to go take him that takes alot of time out of my schedule.If you get a chance will you mention to him that he needs to, try to fix his van so tht he can go get what ever he needs. Tomorrow gary is going to be here.I have to go but Iwill E-Mail you tomorrow Lucy ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
I checked into exercising options with Smith Barney, but Enron has some kind of exclusive with Paine Weber.  I am starting to exercise now, but I am going to use the proceeds to buy another apartment complex. What do you think about selling JDSU and buying SDLI? Also can you look at EOG as a play on rising oil and gas prices. Thanks, 
I tried the new address but I don't have access.  also, what do I need to 
Cooper, This is the website I use: http://ectpdx-sunone/~ctatham/navsetup/index.htm Should I use a different address. 
Cooper, Did you add some more security to the expost hourly summary?  It keeps asking me for additional passwords and domain.  What do I need to enter? 
Stephanie Please grant Paul the requested eol rights Thanks, 
Cash Hehub Chicago PEPL Katy Socal Opal Permian Gas Daily Hehub Chicago PEPL Katy Socal NWPL Permian Prompt Nymex Chicago PEPL HSC Socal 
EOL report for TV in conference on 33 Cash -Hehub -Chicago -PEPL -Katy -Waha 
Colleen, I am out ot the office on Friday, but Keith Holst will attend.  He has been managing the Transport on the west desk. 
Lucy, Now that #44 is rented and you have settled in for a couple of months, we need to focus on expenses and recordkeeping. First, I want to implement the following changes: 1.  No Overtime without my written (or email) instructions. 2.  Daily timesheets for you and Wade faxed to me daily 3.  Paychecks will be issued each Friday by me at the State Bank 4.  No more expenditures on office or landscape than is necessary for basic operations. Moving on to the checkbook, I have attached a spreadsheet that organizes all the checks since Jan. 1. When you open the file, go to the ""Checkbook"" tab and look at the yellow highlighted items.  I have questions about these items. Please gather receipts so we can discuss. Phillip 
Ina, How many times do you think Jeff wants to get this message.  Please help Phillip 
Ina, I keep getting these security requests that I cannot approve.  Please take care of this. Phillip 
Please review and act upon this request. You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000001282&Email =phillip.k.allen@enron.com to approve th Request ID          : 000000000001282 Request Create Date : 8/8/00 9:15:59 AM Requested For       : frank.ermis@enron.com Resource Name       : Market Data Telerate Basic Energy Resource Type       : Applications 
Lucy, I didn't get a fax with the July bank statement on Friday.  Can you refax it to 713 646 2391 
Attached is the link to the site that we reviewed in today's meeting.  The site is a work in progress, so please forward your comments. http://gasfundy.dev.corp.enron.com/ Chris 
Hunter, Are you watching Alberto?  Do you have Yahoo Messenger or Hear Me turned on? 
can you build something to look at historical prices from where we saved curves each night. Here is an example that pulls socal only. Improvements could include a drop down menu to choose any curve and a choice of index,gd, or our curves. 
John, The only long term deal in the west that you could put prudency against is the PGT transport until 2023 
Lucy, I will call you this afternoon to discuss the things in your email. 
Jeff, I want to bid $2.8 for sagewood with a rate 8.5% or less and dependent on 
attached is the systems wish list for the gas basis and physical trading 
I am sending off a follow-up to a bid I submitted to Clark County PUD.  They have requested term pricing for Stanfield on a volume of 17,000.  Could you give me a basis for the period : Sept -00 - May 31, 2006 Sept-00 - May 31, 2008 Since I assume you do not keep a Stanfield basis, but rather a basis off Malin or Rockies, it would probably make sense to show the basis as an adjustment to one of these point.  Also, what should the Mid - Offer Spread be on these terms. Thanks, Mike 
Wade, I understood your number one priority was to deal with your vehicle situation.  You need to take care of it this week.  Lucy can't hold the tenants to a standard (vehicles must be in running order with valid stickers) if the staff doesn't live up to it.  If you decide to buy a small truck and you want to list me as an employer for credit purposes, I will vouch for your income. 
the merlin ct. address is still good.  I don't know why the mailing would be 
Here is the 1st draft of a wish list for systems. 
Attached  are two files that illustrate the following: As prices rose, supply increased and demand decreased.  Now prices are beginning to fall in response these market responses. 
skipping stone animation Have you seen us lately? Come see what's new www.skippingstone.com Energy Experts Consulting to the Energy Industry ! 
fyi  CIG 
Kay, I will be down that weekend, but I am not sure about the rest of the family. All is well here.  I will try to bring some pictures if I can't bring the real thing. 
Celeste, I need two assoc./analyst for the west gas trading desk.  Can you help? I also left you a voice mail. Phillip x37041 
Celeste, I need two assoc./analyst for the west gas trading desk.  Can you help? I also left you a voice mail. Phillip 
please add mike grigsby to distribution list. 
Attached please find a spreadsheet containing a list of natural gas customers in the Global Counterparty database.  These are all active counterparties, although we may not be doing any business with them currently.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call me at x33198. Jason Moore 
Ina, 
Al, I am not in good enough shape to ride a century right now.  Plus I'm nursing some injuries.  I can do lunch this week or next, let's pick a day. 
Brenda, The word document attached is a notice/consent form for the sale.  The excel file is an amortization table for the note. You can use the Additional Principal Reduction to record prepayments.  Please email me back to confirm receipt. Phillip 
Jeff, I have spoken to Brenda and everything looks good.  Matt Lutz was supposed to email me some language but I did not receive it.  I don't have his # so can you follow up.  When is the estimated closing date.  Let me know what else I need to be doing. 
gary, 
Tim, Matt sent you a email with his attempt to organize some of the cems and wscc data.  Tim H. expressed concern over the reliability of the wscc data.  I don't know if we should scrap the wscc or just keep monitoring in case it improves.  Let me know what you think. 
What are my choices for dates? 
Folks, you are the remaining officers of ENA that have not yet enrolled in this mandated training program.  It is ENA's goal to have all its officers through the program before the end of calendar year 2000.  The course has received very high marks for effectiveness.  Please take time now to enroll in the program. Speak to your HR representative if you need help getting signed up. Regards Delainey 
Lucy, I got your email.  I didn't have time to finish it.  I will read it this weekend and ask my dad about the a/c's.  I am glad you are enjoying the job.  This weekend I will mark up the lease and rules.  If I didn't mention this when I was there, the 4th is a paid holiday for you and Wade. Have a good weekend and I will talk to you next week. 
What is GIS info?  Can you do this? 
Charts for today's meeting are attached: 
Mark, We are currently back-testing the storage model. The enclosed version contains deltas and decision variable. You mentioned that you have resources to run the model. Please do so. This will help us to gain experience with the market vs the model. I am going to distribute an article by Caminus, an software vendor. The article illustrates the optionality associated with storage operation very well.  The Enron Research storage model  is a lot like that, although implementation may be different. Let me know if you have any questions. Zimin 
Dear Phillip, Frogger is leaving shockwave.com soon... Save it to your Shockmachine now! Every frog has his day - games, too. Frogger had a great run as an arcade classic, but it is leaving the shockwave.com pond soon. The good news is that you can download it to your Shockmachine and own it forever! Don't know about Shockmachine? You can download Shockmachine for free and save all of your downloadable favorites to play off-line, full-screen, whenever you want. Download Frogger by noon, PST on June 30th, while it's still on the site! the shockwave.com team ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Unsubscribe Instructions ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sure you want to unsubscribe and stop receiving E-mail from us? All right... click here: http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/u/shk/s.asp?e=pallen%40enron.com #27279 
Scott, I emailed your question to a friend that works for the new company.  I think I know the answer to your questions but I want to get the exact details from him.  Basically, they will offer energy  online at a fixed price or some price that undercuts the current provider.  Then once their sales are large enough they will go to the wholesale market to hedge and lock in a profit. The risk is that they have built in enough margin to give them room to manage the price risk.  This is my best guess.  I will get back to you with more. 
Lucy, I want to speak to Wade myself.  He can call me at work or home. Or if you email me his number I will call him. I would like Gary to direct Wade on renovation tasks and you can give him work orders for normal maintenance. I will call you tomorrow to discuss items from the office.  Do you need Mary to come in on any more Fridays?  I think I can guess your answer. I might stop by this Friday. 
http://ecthou-webcl1.nt.ect.enron.com/gas/ All the gas reports are under west desk Call Brian Hoskins for a password 
http://ecthou-webcl1.nt.ect.enron.com/gas/ All the gas reports are under west desk Call Brian Hoskins for a password 
http://ecthou-webcl1.nt.ect.enron.com/gas/ All the gas reports are under west desk Call Brian Hoskins for a password 
Felix, Network: login pallen pw ke7davis Notes: pw synergi My location is 3210B. 
Lucy, Click on this attachment to see the format to record expenses.  You can keep a log on paper or on the computer.  The computer would be better for sending me updates. What do you think about being open until noon on Saturday.  This might be more convenient for collecting rent and showing open apartments. We can adjust office hours on another day. 
Jeff, I will respond to the offer on Monday.  There is a $35 Million expansion adding 250 jobs in Burnet.  I am tempted to hold for $3000/acre.  Owner financing would still work.   Do you have an opinion? 
Al, I was glad to hear from you.  I hope we can put the past behind us.  Sounds like you have been busy.  Congratulations on the new baby.  Judging from your email all is well with you.   That's great. We did have another girl in December, (Evelyn Grace).  Three is it for us. What's your target?  The other two are doing well.  Soccer, T-ball, and bike riding keeps them busy.  They could use some of Cole's coordination. My fitness program is not as intense as yours right now.  I am just on maintenance.  You will be surprised to hear that Hunter is a fanatical cyclist.  We have been riding to work twice a week for the last few months. He never misses, rain or shine.  Sometimes we even hit the trails in Memorial Park on Saturdays.   Mountain biking is not as hard as a 50 mile trip on the road.  I would like to dust off my road bike and go for a ride some Saturday. I would like to hear more about your new job.  Maybe we could grab lunch sometime. Phillip 
Mary, If we add both balances together the total is $1,140.  I can spread it over 6 or 12 months.  6 month payout would be $190/month. 12 month payout would be $95/month.  Your choice.  I would like it if you could work 5/hrs each Friday for another month or so.  Does $10/hr sound fair?  We can apply it to the loan. 
address:    http://ectpdx-sunone.ect.enron.com/~ctatham/navsetup/index.htm id:   pallen 
Lucy, I am going to be in Seguin this Saturday through Monday.  We can talk about a unit for Wade then.  I will call the bank again today to resolve authorization on the account.  Lets keep the office open until noon on Memorial day. 
Lucy, Did you get set up on the checking account?  Try and email me every day with a note about what happened that day. Just info about new vacancies or tenants and which apartments you and wade worked on each day. 
This note is authorization to make the following changes: 1.  Set up a new book for Frank Ermis-NW Basis 2.  Route these products to NW Basis: NWPL RkyMtn Malin PG&E Citygate 3. Route EPNG Permian to Todd Richardson's book FT-New Texas Call with questions. X37041 Thank you, 
[IMAGE] Natural Gas Transporation Contract Information and Pipeline Notices Delivered to Your Desktop http://www.capacitycenter.com [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE] [IMAGE]				Register Now and Sign Up For A Free Trial Through The End Of May Bid Week Capacity Shopper: Learn about capacity release that is posted to bid. Pick up some transport at a good price or explore what releases are out there....it can affect gas prices! Daily Activity Reports: Check out the deals that were done! What did your competitors pick up, and how do their deals match up against yours? This offers you better market intelligence! System Notices: Have System Notices delivered to your desk. Don't be the last one to learn about an OFO because you were busy doing something else! [IMAGE] Capacity Shopper And Daily Activity Reports Have Improved Formats You choose the pipelines you want and we'll keep you posted via email on all the details! Check out this example of a Daily Activity Report. Coming Soon: A Statistical Snapshot on Capacity Release Don't miss this member-only opportunity to see a quick snapshot of the activity on all 48 interstate gas pipelines. This message has been sent to a select group of Industry Professionals, if you do not wish to receive future notices, please Reply to this e-mail with ""Remove"" in the subject line. Copyright 2000 - CapacityCenter.com, Inc. - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
Jeff, I would consider owner financing depending on: Established developer/individual/general credit risk What are they going to do with the land Rate/Term/Downpayment 25% Let me know. Phillip 
Dawn, I received your email with p&l's.  Please continue to send them daily. Thank you, 
No one will be home on 5/11/00 to meet DSL installers.  Need to reschedule to the following week.  Also, my PC at home has Windows 95.  Is this a problem? Call with questions. X37041. Thank you, 
Mike McDonald and I met with SW Gas this morning.  They were polite regarding asset management and procurement function outsourcing and are willing to listen to a proposal.  However, they are very interested in weather hedges to protect throughput related earnings.  We are pursuing a confidentiality agreement with them to facilitate the sharing of information that will enable us to develop proposals.  Our pitch was based upon enhancing shareholder value by outsourcing a non-profit and costly function (procurement) and by reducing the volatility of their earnings by managing throughput via a weather product. As to your other question.  We have yet to identify or pursue other candidates; however, Mike McDonald and I are developing a coverage strategy to ensure that we meet with all potential entities and investigate our opportunities.  We met with 8 entities this week (7 Municipals and SWG) as we implement our strategy in California. Are there any entities that you think would be interested in an asset management deal that we should approach?  Otherwise, we intend to systematically identify and work through all the candidates. Laird 
Laird, Did you meet with SWG on April 27th.  Are there any other asset management targets in the west? 
Janie, Thanks for the fax on SW Gas. We are meeting with Larry Black, Bob Armstrong & Ed Zub on April 27th to discuss asset management.  In preparation for that meeting we would like to gain an understanding of the nature of our business relationship with SW. Could you, in general terms, describe our sales activities with SW.  What are typical quantities and term on sales?  Are there any services we provide? How much pipeline capacity do we buy or sell to them?  Who are your main contacts at SW Gas? We will propose to provide a full requirements supply to SW involving our control of their assets.  For this to be attractive to SW, we will probably have to take on their regulatory risk on gas purchase disallowance with the commissions.  This will be difficult as there is no clear mandate from their commissions as to what an acceptable portfolio (fixed, indexed, collars....) should look like.  Offering them a guaranteed discount to the 1st of month index may not be attractive unless we accept their regulatory risk.  That risk may not be acceptable to the desk.  I will do some investigation of their PGA's and see if there is an opportunity. As to the asset management:  do you have any preference on structure?  Are there elements that you would like to see?  Any ideas at all would be greatly appreciated. Thanks, Laird 
Kay & Neal, Thanks for remembering my birthday.  You beat my parents by one day. The family is doing fine.  Grace is really smiling.  She is a very happy baby as long as she is being held. It sounds like your house is coming along fast.  I think my folks are ready to start building. We will probably visit in late June or July.  May is busy.  We are taking the kids to Disney for their birthdays. Good luck on the house. 
Today's charts are attached: 
Today's charts are attached: 
Mary, I spoke to Gary about the foundation work on #2 & #3.  He agreed that it would be better to just clean up #3 and do whatever he and Wade can do to #2.  Then they can just focus on #19.  I worked on the books this weekend but I need more time to finish.  I will call you in a day or so. 
Here is my DSL form. 
Beth, Here are our addresses for DSL lines: Hunter Shively 10545 Gawain Houston, TX 77024 713 461-4130 Phillip Allen 8855 Merlin Ct Houston, TX 77055 713 463-8626 Mike Grigsby 6201 Meadow Lake Houston, TX 77057 713 780-1022 Thanks 
mac, We will be there on the 9th and I will bring the paperwork. 
Mac, I checked into executing my options with Smith Barney.  Bad news.  Enron has an agreement with Paine Webber that is exclusive.  Employees don't have the choice of where to exercise.  I still would like to get to the premier service account, but I will have to transfer the money. Hopefully this will reach you. 
Jeff, Could we set up an inspection for this Friday at 2:00? Listing for Burnet is in the mail 
tara, Please grant access to manage financial products to the following: Janie Tholt Frank Ermis Steve South Tory Kuykendall Matt Lenhart Randy Gay We are making markets on one day gas daily swaps.  Thank you. 
Mary, Go ahead and work with Gary to get a new fridge for #8. I am going to try and come down this Saturday. Talk to you later. 
Slides from this week's strategy session are attached: 
Mark, Thank you for the offer, but I am not doing the ride this year. Good luck. 
Stephane, Can you create an e-mail list to distribute your reports everyday to the west desk? Or put them on a common drive?  We can do the same with our reports.   List should include: Phillip Allen Mike Grigsby Keith Holst Frank Ermis Steve South Janie Tholt Tory Kuykendall Matt Lenhart Randy Gay Thanks. 
http://ectpdx-sunone/~ctatham/navsetup/index.htm id   pallen pw  westgasx 
As requested by John, here's the map and the forecast... Call me if you have any questions (403) 974-6756. 
Mary I was out of the office on friday. I will call you about wade later today 
As requested by John, here's the map and the forecast... Call me if you have any questions (403) 974-6756. 
socal position This is short, but is it good enough? 
David, I have been receiving your updates.  Either I forgot my password or do not have one.  Can you check? Phillip Allen Enron 
Will, Here is a list of the top items we need to work on to improve the position and p&l reporting for the west desk. My underlying goal is to create position managers and p&l reports that represent all the risk held by the desk and estimate p&l with great accuracy. Let's try and schedule a meeting for this Wednesday to go over the items above. Phillip 
Will, Here is a list of the top items we need to work on to improve the position and p&l reporting for the west desk. My underlying goal is to create position managers and p&l reports that represent all the risk held by the desk and estimate p&l with great accuracy. Let's try and schedule a meeting for this Wednesday to go over the items above. Phillip 
Steve, Please remove Bob Shiring and Liz Rivera from rc #768. Thank you 
Go ahead and order the ac for #27. Can you email or fax a summary of all rents collected from August through December.  I need this to finish my tax return. I have all the expense data but not rent collection.  Fax number is 713-646-3239. Thank you, 
Anymore details?  Is the offer above or below 675? What else do you have in a clean 11cap in a good location with room to expand? 
$100 for the yard seems like enough for up to 12.5 hours.  How long did it take him?  I think $100 should be enough. Use Page Setup under the File menu to change  from Portrait to Landscape if you want to change from printing vertically to printing horizontally.  Also try selecting Fit to one page if you want your print out to be on only one page.  Use Print preview to see what your print out will look like before you print. The truck might need new sparkplugs at around 120,000-125,000 miles.  A valve adjustment might do some good.  It has idled very high for the last 25,000 miles, but it has never broken down. Glad to hear about the good deposit for this week.  Great job on February. 
Slides from yesterday's meeting are attached: 
It is ok to let the deposit rollover on #13 if there is no interruption in 
Dear Phillip, 7th Portal is a super hero action/adventure, featuring a global band of teenage game testers who get pulled into a parallel universe (through the 7th Portal) created through a warp in the Internet. The fate of the earth and the universe is in their hands as they fight Mongorr the Merciful -- the evil force in the universe. The legendary Stan Lee, creator of Spiderman and the Incredible Hulk, brings us ""Let the Game Begin,"" episode #1 of 7th Portal -- a new series exclusively on shockwave.com. - the shockwave.com team ===================== Advertisement ===================== Don't miss RollingStone.com! Watch Daily Music News. Download MP3s. Read album reviews. Get the scoop on 1000s of artists, including exclusive photos, bios, song clips & links. Win great prizes & MORE. http://ads07.focalink.com/SmartBanner/page?16573.37-%n ===================== Advertisement ===================== ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Unsubscribe Instructions ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sure you want to unsubscribe and stop receiving E-mail from us? All right... click here: http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/u/shk/s.asp?e=pallen%40enron.com #17094 
Imelda, Please switch my sitara access from central to west and email me with my password. thank you, 
Mary, I transferred $10,000 out of the checking account on Monday 2/28/00.  I will call you Monday or Tuesday to see what is new. 
Jeff, Let's just close on March 1. 
Did any of you order this JEn 
? PIRA focuses on the  California/Southwest Region in its study of Natural Ga= s=20 Pipeline  Infrastructure PIRA  Energy Group announces the continuation of its new multi-client study= ,=20 The  Price of Reliability: The Value and Strategy of Gas  Transportation. The Price of Reliability, delivered in 6  parts (with each part representin= g=20 a discrete North American region), offers  insights into the changes and=20 developments in the North American natural gas  pipeline infrastructure. Th= e=20 updated prospectus, which is attached in PDF and  Word files, outlines PIRA= 's=20 approach and methodology, study deliverables  and?release dates. This note  is to inform you that PIRA has commenced its study of the third= =20 region:  California & the Southwest. As in all regions, this  study begins= =20 with a fundamental view of gas flows in the U.S. and Canada.  Pipelines in= =20 this region (covering CA, NV, AZ, NM) will be discussed in greater  detail= =20 within the North American context. Then we turn to the value of =20 transportation at the following three major pricing points with an assessme= nt=20 of  the primary market (firm), secondary market (basis) and asset market: ??????1) Southern  California border (Topock) ??????2) San Juan  Basin ??????3) Permian  Basin (Waha)? The California/SW region=01,s  workshop =01* a key element of the service = =01* will=20 take place on March 20, 2000,at 8:30 AM, at the Arizona Biltmore Hotel in = =20 Phoenix.?For those of you joining  us, a?discounted  block  of rooms is bei= ng=20 held through February 25. The attached prospectus explains the various  options for subscribing.?Plea= se=20 note  two key issues in regards to your subscribing options:?One, there is = a=20 10% savings for  PIRA retainer clients who order before February 25, 2000;= =20 and?two, there are discounts for  purchasing?more than one  region. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to  contact me. Sincerely, Jeff Steele Manager, Business  Development PIRA Energy Group (212) 686-6808 jsteele@pira.com =20 - PROSPECTUS.PDF - PROSPECTUS.doc 
tara, I received your email about setting up Paul Lucci and Niccole Cortez with executable id's.  The rights you set up are fine. Thank you for your help. 
mary, Are you sure you did the attachment right.  There was no file attached to your message.  Please try again. 
Mary, I got your email.  Go ahead and get a carpet shampooer.  Make sure it comes back clean after each use.  (Wade and the tenants.) As far as W-2.  I looked up the rules for withholding and social security. I will call you later today to discuss. 
Should I appeal to Skilling. 
Phillip - I applaud you for using your cycle as daily transportation.  Saves on gas, pollution and helps keep you strong and healthy.  Enron provides bike racks in the front of the building for requests such as this.  Phillip, I wish we could accommodate this request; however, The Body Shop does not have the capacity nor can assume the responsibility for storing cycles on a daily basis.  If you bring a very good lock you should be able to secure the bike at the designated outside racks. Keep Pedalling - Lee 
Mary, It is OK to buy a carpet shampooer. 
Slides for today's meeting are attached: 
> > > > George, > >      Can you please call my credit desk at 713-853-1803.  They have not > received any financials for ACN Power. > > Thanks, > > Phillip Allen > > 
> > > > George, > >      Can you please call my credit desk at 713-853-1803.  They have not > received any financials for ACN Power. > > Thanks, > > Phillip Allen > > 
George, Can you please call my credit desk at 713-853-1803.  They have not received any financials for ACN Power. Thanks, 
Kim, Doublecheck with Julie G. , but I think it ok to pay Jan. demand charges. 
I think Steven Wolf is the person to talk to about moving Kim Olinger to a 
I revised the supp-vendor sheet and have transferred the totals to the summary sheet. Please review and let me know if this is what you had in mind. Also, are we getting W-2 forms or what on our taxes. ______________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com - Jan00Expense.xls 
Jim, Updated curves will be sent no later than 11 am on Monday 2/7.  I want Keith to be involved in the process.  He was out today. Sorry for the slow turnaround. 
Tara, This note is documentation of my approval of granting executing id's to the west cash traders. Thank you for your help. 
here is the file I showed you. 
Julie, The numbers for January are below: Actual flows X gas daily spreads          $ 463,000 Actual flow X Index spreads           $ 543,000 Jan. value from original bid           $1,750,000 Estimated cost to unwind hedges         ($1,000,000) Based on these numbers, I suggest we offer to pay at least $500,000 but no more than $1,500,000.  I want your input on how to negotiate with El Paso.  Do we push actual value, seasonal shape, or unwind costs? Phillip 
- DOPEWARS.exe 
Will, I didn't get to review this.  I will give you feedback tomorrow morning 
Tara, Please make the following changes: FT-West -change master user from Phillip Allen to Keith Holst IM-West-Change master user from Bob Shiring to Phillip Allen Mock both existing profiles. Please make these changes on 1/17/00 at noon. Thank you 
Susan, I received an enrollment confirmation for a class that I did not sign up for.  Is there some mistake? 
Jeff/Brenda: Please authorize the following products for approval.  customers are expecting to see them on 1/14. PG&E Citygate-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical Malin-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical Keystone-Monthly Index Physical Socal Border-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical PG&E Topock-Daily Physical, BOM Physical, Monthly Index Physical Please approve and forward to Dale Neuner Thank you 
forecast for socal demand/rec/storage.  Looks like they will need more gas at ehrenberg.(the swing receipt point) than 98 or 99. 
Jeff/Brenda, Please authorize and forward to Tara Sweitzer. Please set up the following with the ability to setup and manage products in stack manager: Steve South Tory Kuykendall Janie Tholt Frank Ermis Matt Lenhart Note:  The type of product these traders will be managing is less than 1 month physical in the west. Also please grant access & passwords to enable the above traders to execute book to book trades on EOL.  If possible restrict their execution authority to products in the first 3 months. Thank you 
Mary Received an email from you on 1/7, but there was no message.  Please try again. 
What did mary write?  Stage misses you?  I sent 2 emails. 
First one's free. So are the next thousand. You know it's true: Video games are addictive. Sure, we could trap you with a free game of Centipede, then kick up the price after you're hooked. But that's not how shockwave.com operates. Shockmachine -- the greatest thing since needle exchange -- is now free; so are the classic arcade games. Who needs quarters? Get Arcade Classics from shockwave.com, stick 'em in your Shockmachine and then play them offline anytime you want. http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/s.asp?H430297053X351629 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lick the Frog. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ You're not getting a date this Friday night. But you don't care. You've got a date with Frogger. This frog won't turn into a handsome prince(ss), but it's sure to bring back great memories of hopping through the arcade -- and this time, you can save your quarters for laundry. Which might increase your potential for a date on Saturday. http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/s.asp?H430297053X351630 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Business Meeting or Missile Command? You Decide. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Take it offline! No, it's not a horrible meeting with your boss - it's Missile Command. Shockmachine has a beautiful feature: you can play without being hooked to the Internet. Grab the game from shockwave.com, save it to your hard drive, and play offline! The missiles are falling. Are you ready to save the world? http://shockwave1.m0.net/m/s.asp?H430297053X351631 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Naomi, The two analysts that I have had contact with are Matt Lenhart  and Vishal Apte. Matt will be represented by Jeff Shankman. Vishal joined our group in October.  He was in the Power Trading Group for the first 9 months. I spoke to Jim Fallon and we agreed that he should be in the excellent category.  I just don't want Vishal to go unrepresented since he changed groups mid year. Call me with questions.(x37041) Phillip Allen 
Here is our forecast 
Outlook Migration Team@ENRON 05/11/2001 01:49 PM 
Current Notes User: To ensure that you experience a successful migration from Notes to Outlook, it is necessary to gather individual user information prior to your date of migration.  Please take a few minutes to completely fill out the following survey. Double Click on document to put it in ""Edit"" mode. When you finish, simply click on the 'Reply With History' button then hit 'Send'  Your survey will automatically be sent to the Outlook 2000 Migration Mailbox. Thank you. Outlook 2000 Migration Team ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- Full Name:        Phillip Allen Login ID:   pallen Extension:   37041 Office Location:  EB3210C What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both)   Both Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada)  IPAQ Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar? If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar?   Yes, Ina Rangel If yes, who? Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who? Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who? Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar? Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here: Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use: In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Let me know when you get the quotes from Pauline.  I am expecting to pay something in the $3,000 to $5,000 range.  I would like to see the quotes and a description of the work to be done.  It is my understanding that some rock will be removed and replaced with siding.  If they are getting quotes to put up new rock then we will need to clarify. Jacques is ready to drop in a dollar amount on the release.  If the negotiations stall, it seems like I need to go ahead and cut off the utilities.  Hopefully things will go smoothly. 
Jeff, Jacques Craig will draw up a release.  What is the status on the quote from Wade? 
Can you guys coordinate to make sure someone listens to this conference call each week.  Tara from the fundamental group was recording these calls when they happened every day. Phillip 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted Please forward to anyone on your team that wants updates on Western wholesale matters (should also give you an opportunity to raise state matters if you want to discuss). Jim 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted Please forward to anyone on your team that wants updates on Western wholesale matters (should also give you an opportunity to raise state matters if you want to discuss). Jim 
Privileged & Confidential Communication Attorney-Client Communication and Attorney Work Product Privileges Asserted 
Traveling to have a business meeting takes the fun out of the trip. Especially if you have to prepare a presentation.  I would suggest holding the business plan meetings here then take a trip without any formal business meetings.  I would even try and get some honest opinions on whether a trip is even desired or necessary. As far as the business meetings, I think it would be more productive to try and stimulate discussions across the different groups about what is working and what is not.  Too often the presenter speaks and the others are quiet just waiting for their turn.   The meetings might be better if held in a round table discussion format. My suggestion for where to go is Austin.  Play golf and rent a ski boat and jet ski's.  Flying somewhere takes too much time. 
Tim, mike grigsby is having problems with accessing the west power site.  Can you please make sure he has an active password. Thank you, 
Reagan, Just wanted to give you an update.  I have changed the unit mix to include some 1 bedrooms and reduced the number of buildings to 12.  Kipp Flores is working on the construction drawings.  At the same time I am pursuing FHA financing.  Once the construction drawings are complete I will send them to you for a revised bid.  Your original bid was competitive and I am still attracted to your firm because of your strong local presence and contacts. 
Jim, Is there going to be a conference call or some type of weekly meeting about all the regulatory issues facing California this week?  Can you make sure the gas desk is included. 
- Full Name:        Phillip Allen Login ID:   pallen Extension:  3-7041 Office Location:  EB3210C What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both)  Both Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada)  IPAQ Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar?  NO If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar?  YES If yes, who?  INA RANGEL Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who?  NO Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who?  NO Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar?  YES, West Calendar Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here:  NO Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use:  NONE In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Current Notes User: REASONS FOR USING OUTLOOK WEB ACCESS (OWA) 1. Once your mailbox has been migrated from Notes to Outlook, the Outlook client will be configured on your computer. After migration of your mailbox, you will not be able to send or recieve mail via Notes, and you will not be able to start using Outlook until it is configured by the Outlook Migration team the morning after your mailbox is migrated.  During this period, you can use Outlook Web Access (OWA) via your web browser (Internet Explorer 5.0) to read and send mail. PLEASE NOTE:  Your calendar entries, personal address book, journals, and To-Do entries imported from Notes will not be available until the Outlook client is configured on your desktop. 2. Remote access to your mailbox. After your Outlook client is configured, you can use Outlook Web Access (OWA) for remote access to your mailbox. PLEASE NOTE:  At this time, the OWA client is only accessible while connecting to the Enron network (LAN).  There are future plans to make OWA available from your home or when traveling abroad. HOW TO ACCESS OUTLOOK WEB ACCESS (OWA) Launch Internet Explorer 5.0, and in the address window type: http://nahou-msowa01p/exchange/john.doe Substitute ""john.doe"" with your first and last name, then click ENTER.  You will be prompted with a sign in box as shown below.  Type in ""corp/your user id"" for the user name and your NT password to logon to OWA and click OK.  You will now be able to view your mailbox. PLEASE NOTE:  There are some subtle differences in the functionality between the Outlook and OWA clients.  You will not be able to do many of the things in OWA that you can do in Outlook.  Below is a brief list of *some* of the functions NOT available via OWA: Features NOT available using OWA: -  Tasks -  Journal -  Spell Checker -  Offline Use -  Printing Templates -  Reminders -  Timed Delivery -  Expiration -  Outlook Rules -  Voting, Message Flags and Message Recall -  Sharing Contacts with others -  Task Delegation -  Direct Resource Booking -  Personal Distribution Lists QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS? If you have questions or concerns using the OWA client, please contact the Outlook 2000 question and answer Mailbox at: Outlook.2000@enron.com Otherwise, you may contact the Resolution Center at: 713-853-1411 Thank you, Outlook 2000 Migration Team 
Current Notes User: To ensure that you experience a successful migration from Notes to Outlook, it is necessary to gather individual user information prior to your date of migration.  Please take a few minutes to completely fill out the following survey.  When you finish, simply click on the 'Reply' button then hit 'Send' Your survey will automatically be sent to the Outlook 2000 Migration Mailbox. Thank you. Outlook 2000 Migration Team ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- Full Name: Login ID: Extension: Office Location: What type of computer do you have?  (Desktop,  Laptop,  Both) Do you have a PDA?  If yes, what type do you have:   (None, IPAQ, Palm Pilot, Jornada) Do you have permission to access anyone's Email/Calendar? If yes, who? Does anyone have permission to access your Email/Calendar? If yes, who? Are you responsible for updating anyone else's address book? If yes, who? Is anyone else responsible for updating your address book? If yes, who? Do you have access to a shared calendar? If yes, which shared calendar? Do you have any Distribution Groups that Messaging maintains for you (for mass mailings)? If yes, please list here: Please list all Notes databases applications that you currently use: In our efforts to plan the exact date/time of your migration, we also will need to know: 
Alan, You should have received updated numbers from Keith Holst.  Call me if you did not receive them. 
Phillip, I got this request.  On the gas side, I think Kean/Lay need an update to a table you prepared for me a few months ago, which I've attached..  Can you oblige?  Thanks, Alan Comnes 
Alan, Steve has asked that you update the power point below so that it reflects all of the ""stupid regulatory/legislative decisions"" since the beginning of the year.  Ken wants to have this updated chart in his briefing book for next week's ""Ken Lay Tour"" to CA. He also wants a forward price curve for both gas and power in CA.  Can we get these three documents by Monday afternoon? 
Christy, I read these points and they definitely need some touch up.  I don't understand why we need to give our commentary on  why prices are so high in California.  This subject has already gotten so much press. Phillip 
Phillip, I got this request.  On the gas side, I think Kean/Lay need an update to a table you prepared for me a few months ago, which I've attached..  Can you oblige?  Thanks, Alan Comnes 
Alan, Steve has asked that you update the power point below so that it reflects all of the ""stupid regulatory/legislative decisions"" since the beginning of the year.  Ken wants to have this updated chart in his briefing book for next week's ""Ken Lay Tour"" to CA. He also wants a forward price curve for both gas and power in CA.  Can we get these three documents by Monday afternoon? 
Tim, Can you authorize access to the west power site for Keith Holtz.  He is our Southern California basis trader and is under a two year contract. On another note, is it my imagination or did the SARR website lower its forecast for McNary discharge during May.  It seems like the flows have been lowered into the 130 range and there are fewer days near 170.  Also the second half of April doesn't seem to have panned out as I expected.  The outflows stayed at 100-110 at McNary.  Can you email or call with some additional insight? Thank you, 
Gary, I have also been speaking to Johnnie Brown in San Antonio to be the general contractor.  According to Johnnie, I would not be pay any less buying from the factory versus purchasing the panels through him since my site is within his region.  Assuming this is true, I will work directly with him.  I believe he has sent you my plans.  They were prepared by Kipp Flores architects. Can you confirm that the price is the same direct from the factory or from the distributor?  If you have the estimates worked up for Johnnie will you please email them to me as well? Thank you for your time.  I am excited about potentially using your product. 
Wholesale Electric Markets 
Ray, Is there any detail on the gas cost proxy.  Which delivery points from which publication will be used?  Basically, can you help us get any clarification on the language ""the average daily cost of gas for all delivery points in California""? 
Ned, Regarding the Waha storage, the west desk does not have a strong need for this storage but we are always willing to show a bid based on the current summer/winter spreads and cycling value.  The following assumptions were made to establish our bid:  5% daily injection capacity, 10% daily withdrawal capacity, 1% fuel (injection only), 0.01/MMBtu variable injection and withdrawal fees.  Also an undiscounted  June 01 to January 02 spread of $0.60 existed at the time of this bid. Bid for a 1 year storage contract beginning June 01 based on above assumptions:  $0.05/ MMBtu/Month ($0.60/Year).  Demand charges only. I am not sure if this is exactly what you need or not.  Please call or email with comments. Phillip Allen 
Phil,  I suspect that discussions/negotiations are taking place behind closed doors ""in smoke filled rooms"", if not directly between Commissioners then among FERC staffers.  Never say never, but I think it is highly unlikely that the final order will contain a fixed price cap.  I base this belief in large part on what I heard at a luncheon I attended yesterday afternoon at which the keynote speaker was FERC Chairman Curt Hebert.  Although the Chairman began his presentation by expressly stating that he would not comment or answer questions on pending proceedings before the Commission, Hebert had some enlightening comments which relate to price caps: Price caps are almost never the right answer Price Caps will have the effect of prolonging shortages Competitive choices for consumers is the right answer Any solution, however short term, that does not increase supply or reduce demand, is not acceptable Eight out of eleven western Governors oppose price caps, in that they would export California's problems to the West This is the latest intelligence I have on the matter, and it's a pretty strong anti- price cap position.  Of course, Hebert is just one Commissioner out of 3 currently on the Commission, but he controls the meeting agenda and if the draft order is not to his liking, the item could be bumped off the agenda.  Hope this info helps.  Ray Phillip K Allen@ECT 04/25/2001 02:28 PM 
Are there behind closed doors discussions being held prior to the meeting? Is there the potential for a surprise announcement of some sort of fixed price gas or power cap once the open meeting finally happens? 
Are there behind closed doors discussions being held prior to the meeting? Is there the potential for a surprise announcement of some sort of fixed 
Gary, Here is a photograph of a similar house.  The dimensions would be 56'Wide X 41' Deep for the living area.  In addition there will be a 6' deep two story porch across the entire back and 30' across the front.  A modification to the front will be the addition of a gable across 25' on the left side.  The living area will be brought forward under this gable to be flush with the front porch. I don't have my floor plan with me at work today, but will bring in tomorrow and fax you a copy. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 pallen@enron.com 
Christy, I read these points and they definitely need some touch up.  I don't understand why we need to give our commentary on  why prices are so high in California.  This subject has already gotten so much press. Phillip 
Mr. Allen - Per our phone conversation, please see the instructions below to get access to view FERC meetings.  Please advise if there are any problems, questions or concerns. Eric Benson Sr. Specialist Enron Government Affairs - The Americas 713-853-1711 ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
As long as you are configured to receive Real Video, you should be able to access the FERC meeting this Wednesday, November 8.  The instructions are below. 
Here is the URL address for the Capitol Connection.  You should be able to simply click on this URL below and it should come up for you.  (This is assuming your computer is configured for Real Video/Audio).  We will pay for the annual contract and bill your cost centers. You are connected for tomorrow as long as you have access to Real Video. http://www.capitolconnection.gmu.edu/ Instructions: Once into the Capitol Connection sight, click on FERC Click on first line (either ""click here"" or box) Dialogue box should require:  user name:  enron-y password:  fercnow Real Player will connect you to the meeting Expand your screen as you wish for easier viewing Adjust your sound as you wish 
Frank, The implied risk created by the san juan and rockies indeces being partially set after today is the same as the risk in a long futures position.  Whatever the risk was prior should not matter.  Since the rest of the books are very short price this should be a large offset.  If the VAR calculation does not match the company's true risk then it needs to be revised or adjusted. 
I just spoke to the insurance company.  They are going to cancel and prorate 
Griff, It is bidweek again.  I need to provide view only ID's to the two major publications that post the monthly indeces.  Please email an id and password to the following: Dexter Steis at Natural Gas Intelligence- dexter@intelligencepress.com Liane Kucher at Inside Ferc-  lkuch@mh.com Bidweek is under way so it is critical that these id's are sent out asap. Thanks for your help, 
Send his resume to Karen Buckley.  I believe there will be a full round of 
Have him send his resume to Karen Buckley in HR.  There is a new round of trading track interviews in May. 
Andrea, After reviewing Bryan Hull's resume, I think he would be best suited for the trading track program.  Please forward his resume to Karen Buckley. 
Johnnie, Thank you for meeting with me on Friday.  I left feeling very optimistic about the panel system.  I would like to find a way to incorporate the panels into the home design I showed you.  In order to make it feasible within my budget I am sure it will take several iterations.  The prospect of purchasing the panels and having your  framers install them may have to be considered. However, my first choice would be for you to be the general contractor. I realize you receive a number of calls just seeking information about this product with very little probability of a sale.  I just want to assure you that I am going to build this house in the fall and I would seriously consider using the panel system if it truly was only a slight increase in cost over stick built. Please email your cost estimates when complete. Thank you, 
Ina, Can you please forward the presentation to Mog. Phillip 
Chad, Call Ted Bland about the trading track program.  All the desks are trying to use this program to train analysts to be traders.  Your experience should help you in the process and make the risk rotation unnecessary. Unless you are dying to do another rotation is risk. 
Apartments, Phillip Allen 
How am I to send them the money for the silent second?  Regular mail, overnight, wire transfer?  I don't see how their bank will make the funds available by Friday unless I wire the money.  If that is what I need to do 
The topic will the the western natural gas market.  I may have overhead 
Jeff, I am in the office today.  Any isssues to deal with for the stagecoach? 
Enron Wholesale Services (EES Gas Desk) Approved Trader List: Name    Title    Region  Basis Only Black, Don   Vice President   Any Desk Hewitt, Jess   Director    All Desks Vanderhorst, Barry  Director    East, West Shireman, Kris   Director    West Des Champs, Joe  Director    Central Reynolds, Roger   Director    West Migliano, Andy    Manager   Central Wiltfong, Jim   Manager   All Desks Barker, Jim   Sr, Specialist   East Fleming, Matt   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Tate, Paul   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Driscoll, Marde   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Arnold, Laura   Sr. Specialist   Central - basis only Blaine, Jay   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Guerra, Jesus   Sr. Specialist   Central - basis only Bangle, Christina  Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Smith, Rhonda   Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Boettcher, Amanda  Sr. Specialist   Central - basis only Pendegraft, Sherry  Sr. Specialist   East - basis only Ruby Robinson   Specialist   West - basis only Diza, Alain   Specialist   East - basis only Monday, April 16, 2001 Jess P. Hewitt Revised Approved Trader List.doc 
The insurance company is: Central Insurance Agency, Inc 6000 N., Lamar P.O. Box 15427 Austin, TX 78761-5427 Policy #CBI420478 Contact:  Jeanette Peterson (512)451-6551 The actual policy is signed by Vista Insurance Partners. Please try and schedule the appraiser for sometime after 1 p.m. so my Dad can walk him around. I will be out of town on Tuesday.  What else do we need to get done before closing? 
Here is a simplistic spreadsheet.  I didn't drop in the new generation yet, but even without the new plants it looks like Q3 is no worse than last year. Can you take a look and get back to me with the bullish case? thanks, Phillip 
Here is a simplistic spreadsheet.  I didn't drop in the new generation yet, but even without the new plants it looks like Q3 is no worse than last year. Can you take a look and get back to me with the bullish case? thanks, Phillip 
I will try and get my dad to take the appraiser into a couple of units.  Let me know the day and time. 
Larry, It sounds like Claudia and Jacques are almost finished with the documents. There is one item of which I was unsure.  Was an environmental report prepared before the original purchase?  If yes, shouldn't it be listed as an asset of the partnership and your costs be recovered? 
Lucy, The spreadsheet looks fine to me. 
Bruce, Thank you for your bid.  I have decided on a floor plan.  I am going to have an architect in Austin draw the plans and help me work up a detailed specification list.  I will send you that detailed plan and spec list when complete for a final bid.  Probably in early to mid June. 
Lucy, Here is the rentroll from last friday. The closing was to be this Thursday but it has been delayed until Friday April 20th.  If you can stay on until April 20th that would be helpful.  If you have made other commitments I understand. Gary is planning to put an A/C in #35. You can give out my work numer (713) 853-7041 
Greg, The kids are into typical toys and games.  Justin likes power ranger stuff.  Kelsey really likes art.  Books would also be good. We are spending Christmas in Houston with Heather's sister.  We are planning to come to San Marcos for New Years. How long will you stay?  what are your plans?  Email me with latest happenings with you in the big city. 
Jed, Thanks for the response. 
The following are the prices you requested.  Unfortunately we are unwilling to transact at these levels due to the current market volatility, but you can consider these accurate market prices: May01-Oct01 Socal/Juan offer:  8.70 usd/mmbtu Apr02-Oct02 Socal/Juan offer:  3.53 usd/mmbtu Our present value mark to market calculations for these trades are as follows: May01-Oct01 30,000/day @ 0.5975 =  $44,165,200 Apr02-Oct02 @  0.60 =  $5,920,980 Apr02-Oct02 @  0.745 =  $5,637,469 Apr02-Oct02 @  0.55 =  $3,006,092 If you have any other questions call: (203) 355-5059 Jed Hershey **************************************************************************** This e-mail contains privileged attorney-client communications and/or confidential information, and is only for the use by the intended recipient. Receipt by an unintended recipient does not constitute a waiver of any applicable privilege. Reading, disclosure, discussion, dissemination, distribution or copying of this information by anyone other than the intended recipient or his or her employees or agents is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this communication in error, please immediately notify us and delete the original material from your computer. Sempra Energy Trading Corp. (SET) is not the same company as SDG&E or SoCalGas, the utilities owned by SET's parent company.  SET is not regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission and you do not have to buy SET's products and services to continue to receive quality regulated service from the utilities. **************************************************************************** 
Reagan, I sent you an email last week stating that I would be in San Marcos on Friday, April 13th.  However, my closing has been postponed.  As I mentioned I am going to have Cary Kipp draw the plans for the residence and I will get back in touch with you once he is finished. Regarding the multifamily project, I am going to work with a project manager from San Antonio.  For my first development project, I feel more comfortable with their experience obtaining FHA financing.  We are working with Kipp Flores to finalize the floor plans and begin construction drawings.  Your bid for the construction is competive with other construction estimates.  I am still attracted to your firm as the possible builder due to your strong local relationships.  I will get back in touch with you once we have made the final determination on unit mix and site plan. 
Jacques, The amounts needed to fill in the blanks on Exhibit ""B"" are as follows: Kipp Flores-Total Contract was $23,600 but $2,375 was paid and only $21,225 is outstanding. Kohutek- $2,150 Cuatro- $37,800 George & Larry paid $3,500 for the appraisal and I agreed to reimburse this amount. The total cash that Keith and I will pay the Sellers is $5,875 ($3,500 appraisal and $2,375 engineering).    I couldn't find any reference to this cash consideration to be paid by the buyers. Let me know if I need to do anything else before you can forward this to the sellers to be executed. Phillip 
John, Regarding the employment agreement, Mike declined without a counter.  Keith said he would sign for $75K cash/$250 equity.  I still believe Frank should receive the same signing incentives as Keith. 
Thanks for the response.  I think you are right that engaging an architect is the next logical step.  I had already contacted Cary Kipp and sent him the floor plan. He got back to me yesterday with his first draft.  He took my plan and improved it.  I am going to officially engage Cary to draw the plans.  While he works on those I wanted to try and work out a detailed specification list.  Also, I would like to visit a couple of homes that you have built and speak to 1 or 2 satisfied home owners.  I will be in San Marcos on Friday April 13th.  Are there any homes near completion that I could walk through that day?  Also can you provide some references? Once I have the plans and specs, I will send them to you so you can adjust your bid. 
Do you have a distribution list to send this to all the traders. Phillip 
Fred/Phillip/Scott:  We are having a happy hour at Sambuca this Thursday, please be our guests and invite anyone on your desks that would be interested in meeting some of the new gas desk team. http://www.americangreetings.com/pickup.pd?i=172082367&m=1891 Thank you, Jess 
Jacques, The assets and liabilities that we are willing to assume are listed below: Assets: Land Preliminary Architecture Design-Kipp Flores Architects Preliminary Engineering-Cuatro Consultants, Ltd. Soils Study-Kohutek Engineering & Testing, Inc. Appraisal-Atrium Real Estate Services Liabilities: Note to Phillip Allen Outstanding Invoices to Kipp Flores, Cuatro, and Kohutek Additional Consideration or Concessions Forgive interest due Reimburse $3,500 for appraisal and $2,375 for partial payment to engineer Let me know if you need more detail. 
The Enron Center garage will be opening very soon. Employees who work for business units that are scheduled to move to the new building and currently park in the Allen Center or Met garages are being offered a parking space in the new Enron Center garage. This is the only offer you will receive during the initial migration to the new garage. Spaces will be filled on a first come first served basis. The cost for the new garage will be the same as Allen Center garage which is currently $165.00 per month, less the company subsidy, leaving a monthly employee cost of $94.00. If you choose not to accept this offer at this time, you may add your name to the Enron Center garage waiting list at a later day and offers will be made as spaces become available. The Saturn Ring  that connects the garage and both buildings will not be opened until summer 2001. All initial parkers will have to use the street level entrance to Enron Center North until Saturn Ring access is available. Garage stairways next to the elevator lobbies at each floor may be used as an exit in the event of elevator trouble. If you are interested in accepting this offer, please reply via email to Parking and Transportation as soon as you reach a decision. Following your email, arrangements will be made for you to turn in your old parking card and receive a parking transponder along with a new information packet for the new garage. The Parking and Transportation desk may be reached via email at Parking and Transportation/Corp/Enron or 713-853-7060  with any questions. (You must enter & exit on Clay St. the first two weeks, also pedestrians, will have to use the garage stairwell located on the corner of Bell & Smith.) 
Lucy, Here is a final 12/01 rentroll for you to save.  My only questions are: 1.  Neil Moreno in #21-he paid $120 on 11/24, but did not pay anything on 12/01.  Even if he wants to swich to bi-weekly, he needs to pay at the beginning of the two week period.  What is going on? 2.  Gilbert in #27-is he just late? 
Jacques I am out of the office for the rest of the week.  Have you ever seen anyone miss as much work as I have in the last 6 weeks?  I assure you this is unusual for me. Hopefully we can sign some documents on Monday.  Call me on my cell phone if you need me. 
Reagan, I am still reviewing the numbers but here are some initial thoughts. Are you proposing a cost plus contract with no cap? What role would you play in obtaining financing?  Any experience with FHA 221(d) loans? Although your fees are lower than George and Larry I am still getting market quotes lower yet.  I have received estimates structured as follows: 5% - onsite expenses, supervision, clean up, equipment 2%- overhead 4%- profit I just wanted to give you this initial feedback.  I have also attached an extremely primitive spreadsheet to outline the project.  As you can see even reducing the builders fees to the numbers above the project would only generate $219,194 of cash flow for a return of 21%.  I am not thrilled about such a low return.  I think I need to find a way to get the total cost down to $10,500,000 which would boost the return to 31%.  Any ideas? I realize that you are offering significant development experience plus you local connections.  I am not discounting those services.   I will be out of the office for the rest of the week, but I will call you early next week. Phillip 
Cary, Here is the picture of the house I have in mind.  I was going for a simple farmhouse style to  place on 5 acres near Wimberley. A few points that might not be obvious from the plans are: There will be a double porch across the back just like the front No dormers (Metal roof) 1/2 bath under stairs Overall dimensions are 55 by 40 What I am looking for is a little design help in the kitchen.  More cabinets, maybe a different shaped island, and a way to enlarge the pantry. Reagan suggested that I find a way to make the exterior more attractive.  I want to keep a simple roof line to avoid leaks, but I was thinking about bringing the left side forward in the front of the house and place 1 gable in the front. That might look good if the exterior was stone and stucco.  Also the front porch would be smaller. I have 3 bids from builders all around $325,000.  I am ready to go ahead and have the plans done so I can spec out all the finishings and choose a builder. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to do the work.  As I mentioned my alternative is $0.60/ft.  I thought that since I had a such a detailed sketch, you might consider the job for less than the $6,000 that Reagan allowed. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 
Cary, Here is the picture of the house I have in mind.  I was going for a simple farmhouse style to  place on 5 acres near Wimberley. A few points that might not be obvious from the plans are: There will be a double porch across the back just like the front No dormers (Metal roof) 1/2 bath under stairs Overall dimensions are 55 by 40 What I am looking for is a little design help in the kitchen.  More cabinets, maybe a different shaped island, and a way to enlarge the pantry. Reagan suggested that I find a way to make the exterior more attractive.  I want to keep a simple roof line to avoid leaks, but I was thinking about bringing the left side forward in the front of the house and place 1 gable in the front. That might look good if the exterior was stone and stucco.  Also the front porch would be smaller. I have 3 bids from builders all around $325,000.  I am ready to go ahead and have the plans done so I can spec out all the finishings and choose a builder. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to do the work.  As I mentioned my alternative is $0.60/ft.  I thought that since I had a such a detailed sketch, you might consider the job for less than the $6,000 that Reagan allowed. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 
(See attached file: F828FA00.PDF) (See attached file: F828FA00.PDF) - F828FA00.PDF 
------Transcript of session follows ------- scsatkfa@caprock.net The user's email name is not found. Received: from postmaster.enron.com ([192.152.140.9]) by mail1.caprock.net with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.5.1877.197.19);  Thu, 29 Mar 2001 09:36:49 -0600 Received: from mailman.enron.com (mailman.enron.com [192.168.189.66]) by postmaster.enron.com (8.8.8/8.8.8/postmaster-1.00) with ESMTP id PAB09150 for <scsatkfa@caprock.net>; Thu, 29 Mar 2001 15:42:03 GMT 
Cary, Here is the picture of the house I have in mind.  I was going for a simple farmhouse style to  place on 5 acres near Wimberley. A few points that might not be obvious from the plans are: There will be a double porch across the back just like the front No dormers (Metal roof) 1/2 bath under stairs Overall dimensions are 55 by 40 What I am looking for is a little design help in the kitchen.  More cabinets, maybe a different shaped island, and a way to enlarge the pantry.    Reagan suggested that I find a way to make the exterior more attractive.  I want to keep a simple roof line to avoid leaks, but I was thinking about bringing the left side forward in the front of the house and place 1 gable in the front.  That might look good if the exterior was stone and stucco.  Also the front porch would be smaller. I have 3 bids from builders all around $325,000.  I am ready to go ahead and have the plans done so I can spec out all the finishings and choose a builder. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to do the work.  As I mentioned my alternative is $0.60/ft.  I thought that since I had a such a detailed sketch, you might consider the job for less than the $6,000 that Reagan allowed. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 
Reagan, Thank you for the quick response on the bid for the residence.  Below is a list of questions on the specs: 1.  Is the framing Lumber #2 yellow pine?  Wouldn't fir or spruce warp less and cost about the same? 2.  What type of floor joist would be used?  2x12 or some sort of factory joist? 3.  What type for roof framing?  On site built rafters? or engineered trusses? 4.  Are you planning for insulation between floors to dampen sound?  What type of insulation in floors and ceiling?  Batts or blown?  Fiberglass or Cellulose? 5.  Any ridge venting or other vents (power or turbine)? 6. Did you bid for interior windows to have trim on 4 sides?  I didn't know the difference between an apron and a stool. 7.  Do you do anything special under the upstairs tile floors to prevent cracking?  Double plywood or hardi board underlay? 8.  On the stairs, did you allow for a bannister?  I was thinking a partial one out of iron.  Only about 5 feet. 9.  I did not label it on the plan, but I was intending for a 1/2 bath under the stairs. A pedestal sink would probably work. 10.  Are undermount sinks different than drop ins?  I was thinking undermount stainless in kitchen and undermount cast iron in baths. 11.  1 or 2 A/C units?  I am assuming 2. 12.  Prewired for sound indoors and outdoors? 13.  No door and drawer pulls on any cabinets or just bath cabinets? 14.  Exterior porches included in bid?  Cedar decking on upstairs?  Iron railings? 15.  What type of construction contract would you use?  Fixed price except for change orders? I want to get painfully detailed with the specs before I make a decision but this is a start.  I think I am ready to get plans drawn up.  I am going to call Cary Kipp to see about setting up a design meeting to see if I like his ideas. Phillip I 
Larry, Jacques has sent a document to Claudia for your review.  Just dropping you a line to confirm that you have seen it. 
Jacques, Would it be ok if I signed new consulting agreements with the engineer and architect?  They have both sent me agreements.  The only payment that George and Larry had made was $2,350 to the architect.  I have written personal checks in the amounts of $25,000 to the architect and $13,950 to the engineer. I was wondering if the prior work even needs to be listed as an asset of the partnership. I would like for the agreements with these consultants to be with the partnership not with me.  Should I wait until the partnership has been conveyed to sign in the name of the partnership. Let me know what you think. Phillip 
Greg, Here are my comments and questions on the cost estimates: Cost per square foot seem too low for construction $33.30/sf (gross)/$36/sf (rentable) What do the cost for On-Site General Requirements ( $299,818) represent? Will you review the builders profit and fees with me again?  You mentioned 2% overhead, 3 %  ???, and 5% profit. Why is profit only 4%? Why are the architect fees up to $200K.  I thought they would be $80K. What is the $617K of profit allowance?  Is that the developers profit to boost loan amount but not a real cost? Total Closing and Application costs of 350K?  That seems very high?  Who receives the 2 points?  How much will be sunk costs if FHA declines us? Where is your 1%?  Are you receiving one of the points on the loan? What is the status on the operating pro forma?  My back of the envelope puts NOI at $877K assuming 625/1BR, 1300/3BR, 950/2BR, 5% vacancy, and 40% expenses.  After debt service that would only leave $122K.  The coverage would only be 1.16. Talk to you this afternoon. Phillip 
Grif, Please provide a temporary id Phillip 
Hi Phillip, It's that time of month again, if you could be so kind. Thanks, Dexter ***************************** Dexter Steis Executive Publisher Intelligence Press, Inc. 22648 Glenn Drive Suite 305 Sterling, VA 20164 tel: (703) 318-8848 fax: (703) 318-0597 http://intelligencepress.com http://www.gasmart.com ****************************** At 09:57 AM 1/26/01 -0600, you wrote: >Dexter, > >You should receive a guest id shortly. > >Phillip 
John, Mike is fine with signing a new contract (subject to reading the terms, of course).  He prefers to set strikes over a 3 month period.  His existing contract pays him a retention payment of $55,000 in the next week.  He still wants to receive this payment. 
Reagan, Here is a photograhph of the house I have in mind. Specific features include: Stained and scored concrete floors downstairs Wood stairs Two story porches on front and rear Granite counters in kitchens and baths Tile floors in upstairs baths Metal roof w/ gutters (No dormers) Cherry or Maple cabinets in kitchen & baths Solid wood interior doors Windows fully trimmed Crown molding in downstairs living areas 2x6 wall on west side Undecided items include: Vinyl or Aluminum windows Wood or carpet in upstairs bedrooms and game room Exterior stucco w/ stone apron and window trim  or rough white brick on 3-4 sides I have faxed you the floor plans.  The dimensions may be to small to read. The overall dimensions are 55' X 40'.  For a total of 4400 sq ft under roof, but only 3800 of livable space after you deduct the garage. Are there any savings in the simplicity of the design?  It is basically a box with a simple roof line.  Call me if you have any questions. 713-853-7041. Phillip 
Greg, Something that I forgot to ask you.  Do you know if Hugo is planning to replatt using an administrative process which I understand is quicker than the full replatting process of 3 weeks? Also let me know about the parking.  The builder in San Marcos believed the plan only had 321 parking spots but would require 382 by code.  The townhomes across the street have a serious parking problem.  They probably planned for the students to park in the garages but instead they are used as extra rooms. 
Jacques, The agreement looks fine.   My only comment is that George and Larry might object to the language that ""the bank that was requested to finance the construction of the project declined to make the loan based on the high costs of the construction of the Project"".   Technically, that bank lowered the loan amount based on lower estimates of rents which altered the amount of equity that would be required. Did I loan them $1,300,000?  I thought it was less. Regarding Exhibit A, the assets include:  the land, architectural plans, engineering completed, appraisal, and soils study.   Most of these items are in a state of partial completion by the consultants.  I have been speaking directly to the architect, engineer, and soils engineer.   I am unclear on what is the best way to proceed with these consultants. The obligations should include the fees owed to the consultants above.  Do we need to list balances due or just list the work completed as an asset  and give consideration of $5,875 for the cash paid to the engineer and appraisor. 
Calif ISO, PUC Inspect Off-line Duke South Bay Pwr Plant, DJ Calif Regula tors Visit AES,Dynegy Off-Line Power Plants 
Calif ISO, PUC Inspect Off-line Duke South Bay Pwr Plant, DJ Calif Regula tors Visit AES,Dynegy Off-Line Power Plants 
Calif ISO, PUC Inspect Off-line Duke South Bay Pwr Plant, DJ Calif Regula tors Visit AES,Dynegy Off-Line Power Plants 
Hope this helps!  This is the current gas desk list that I have in my personal address book.  Call me with any questions. Erika GROUP: East Desk Basics: Group name:	East Desk Group type:	Multi-purpose Description: Members:	Matthew B Fleming/HOU/EES James R Barker/HOU/EES Barend VanderHorst/HOU/EES Jay Blaine/HOU/EES Paul Tate/HOU/EES Alain Diza/HOU/EES Rhonda Smith/HOU/EES Christina Bangle/HOU/EES Sherry Pendegraft/HOU/EES Marde L Driscoll/HOU/EES Daniel Salinas/HOU/EES Sharon Hausinger/HOU/EES Joshua Bray/HOU/EES James Wiltfong/HOU/EES Owners:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Administrators:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Foreign directory sync allowed:	Yes GROUP: West Desk Basics: Group name:	West Desk Group type:	Multi-purpose Description: Members:	Jesus Guerra/HOU/EES Monica Roberts/HOU/EES Laura R Arnold/HOU/EES Amanda Boettcher/HOU/EES C Kyle Griffin/HOU/EES Jess Hewitt/HOU/EES Artemio Muniz/HOU/EES Eugene Zeitz/HOU/EES Brandon Whittaker/HOU/EES Roland Aguilar/HOU/EES Ruby Robinson/HOU/EES Roger Reynolds/HOU/EES David Coolidge/HOU/EES Joseph Des Champs/HOU/EES Kristann Shireman/HOU/EES Owners:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Administrators:	Erika Dupre/HOU/EES Foreign directory sync allowed:	Yes 
Steve, 
Larry, Jacques has been working with Claudia.  I will check his progress this morning and let you know. 
Greg, just a note to let you know I will be out of the office Wed(3/21) until Thurs(3/23).  The kids are on spring break.  I will be in San Marcos and you can reach me on my cell phone 713-410-4679 or email pallen70@hotmail.com. I was planning on stopping by to see Hugo Elizondo on Thursday to drop off a check and give him the green light to file for replatting.  What will change if we want to try and complete the project in phases.  Does he need to change what he is going to submit to the city. I spoke to Gordon Kohutek this morning.  He was contracted to complete the soils study.  He says he will be done with his report by the end of the week.  I don't know who needs this report.  I told Gordon you might call to inquire about what work he performed. His number is 512-930-5832. We spoke on the phone about most of these issues. Talk to you later. 
Jacques, Here is Larry Lewter's response to my request for more documentation to support the $15,000.  As you will read below, it is no longer an issue.  I think that was the last issue to resolve. Phillip 
Ina, Can you help me approve this request? Phillip 
This request has been pending your approval for  9 days.  Please click http://itcapps.corp.enron.com/srrs/auth/emailLink.asp?ID=000000000021442&Page= Approval to review and act upon this request. Request ID          : 000000000021442 Request Create Date : 3/2/01 8:27:00 AM Requested For       : mike.grigsby@enron.com Resource Name       : Market Data Bloomberg Resource Type       : Applications 
Jacques, Still trying to close the loop on the $15,000 of extensions.  Assuming that it is worked out today or tomorrow, I would like to get whatever documents need to be completed to convey the partnership done.  I need to work with the engineer and architect to get things moving.  I am planning on  writing a personal check to the engineer while I am setting up new accounts.  Let me know if there is a reason I should not do this. Thanks for all your help so far.  Between your connections and expertise in structuring the loan, you saved us from getting into a bad deal. 
Larrry, I realize you are disappointed about the project.  It is not my desire for you to be left with out of pocket expenses.  The only item from your list that I need further clarification is the $15,000 worth of extensions.  You mentioned that this was applied to the cost of the land and it actually represents your cash investment in the land.  I agree that you should be refunded any cash investment.  My only request is that you help me locate this amount on the closing statement or on some other document. 
Phillip, How are you and how is everyone? I sent you the rent roll #27 is moving out and I wknow that I will be able to rent it real fast.All I HAVE TO DO IN there is touch up the walls .Four adults will be moving in @130.00 a wk and 175.00 deposit they will be in by Thursday or Friday. Thank You , Lucy ______________________________________________________________________________ _______ Get more from the Web.  FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com - rentroll_1201.xls 
Jacques, I think we reached an agreement with George and Larry to pick up the items of value and not pay any fees for their time.  It looks as if we will be able to use everything they have done (engineering, architecture, survey, appraisal).  One point that is unclear is they claim that the $15,000 in extensions that they paid was applied to the purchase price of the land like earnest money would be applied.  I looked at the closing statements and I didn't see $15,000 applied against the purchase price.  Can you help clear this up. Assuming we clear up the $15,000, we need to get the property released. Keith and I are concerned about taking over the Bishop Corner partnership and the risk that there could be undisclosed liabilities.  On the other hand, conveyance of the partnership would be a time and money saver if it was clean.  What is your inclination? Call as soon as you have a chance to review. 
Let's talk to Matt about the forecast sheets for Socal and PG&E.  He needs to work on the TW sheet as well.   Also, I would like him to create a sheet on pipeline expansions and their rates and then tie in the daily curves for the desk to use. Mike 
Lucy, Here is the rentroll. My only questions are about #18, #25, and #37 missed rent.  Any special reasons? It looks like there are five vacancies #2,12,20a,35,40.  If you want to run an ad in the paper with a $50 discount that is fine. I will write you a letter of recommendation.  When do you need it?  You can use me as a reference.  In the next two weeks we should really have a good idea whether the sale is going through. 
I also need to know the base salaries of Jay Reitmeyer and Monique Sanchez. 
FYI Western Price Survey Contacts Cal-ISO's declaration of Stage Two alert this morning was triggered in part by decision of Bonneville Power Administration to cease hour-to-hour sales into California of between 600 MW and 1,000 MW that it had been making for the past week. According to BPA, it had excess energy to sell as a result of running water to meet biological opinion flow standards, but it has stopped doing so in order to allow reservoirs to fill from runoff. The agency said it had been telling California's Department of Water Resources that the sales could cease at any time, and this morning they ended. Cal-ISO reported about 1,600 MW less imports today than yesterday, so it appears other sellers have also cut back. Yesterday, PowerEx said it was not selling into California because of concerns about its water reserves. BPA said it is still sending exchange energy into California, however. More details, if available, will be included in the Friday edition of the Western Price Survey and in California Energy Markets newsletter. 
Thanks for the information.  It would be helpful if you would send the detailed worksheet that you mentioned. I am surprised to hear that the only restricted shares left are the ones granted this January.  I have always elected to defer any distributions of restricted stock.  I believe I selected the minimum amount required to be kept in enron stock (50%).   Are you saying that all the previous grants have fully vested and been distributed to my deferral account? Thank you for looking into this issue. 
(See attached file: outline.doc) (See attached file: MAPTTRA.xls) (Sample checklist of items needed for closing.  We have received some of the items to date) (See attached file: Checklist.doc) - outline.doc - MAPTTRA.xls - Checklist.doc 
Lucy, Somehow my email account lost the rentroll you sent me on Tuesday.  Please resend it and I will roll it for this week this morning. 
[IMAGE][IMAGE]??????????? ??????????? 8511 Horseshoe Ledge, Austin, TX? 78730-2840 Telephone (512) 338-1119? Fax(512)338-1103 E-Mail? cbpres@austin.rr.com ? ? ? ? March 13, 2001? Phillip Allen Keith Holst ENRON 1400 Smith Street Houston, TX? 77002-7361 
Dear Phillip and Keith: We are prepared to sell Bishops Corner, Ltd. for reimbursement of our cash expenditures; compensation for our management services and your assumption of all note obligations and design contracts.? As shown on the attached summary table, cash expenditures total $21,196 and existing contracts to the architect, civil engineer, soils testing company, and appraisal total $67,050.? The due on these contracts is $61,175, of which current unpaid invoices due total $37,325. Acting in good faith, we have invested an enormous amount of time into this project for more than five months and have completed most of the major design and other pre-construction elements.? As it is a major project for a firm of our size, it was given top priority with other projects being delayed or rejected, and we are now left with no project to pursue.? Two methods for valuing this development management are 1) based on a percentage of the minimum $1.4MM fee we were to have earned and 2) based on your prior valuation of our time.? For the first, we feel that at least 25%, or $350,000, of the minimum $1.4MM fee has been earned to date.? For the second, in your prior correspondence you valued our time at $500,000 per year, which would mean this period was worth $208,333.? Either of these valuations seem quite fair and reasonable, especially as neither includes the forfeit of our 40% interest in the project worth $0.8--$1.2MM. ?However, in the hope that we can maintain a good relationship with the prospect of future projects, we are willing to accept only a small monthly fee of $15,000 per month to cover a portion of our direct time and overhead.? As shown in the attached table, this fee, plus cash outlays and less accrued interest brings the total net buyout to $78,946.? We still believe that this project needs the professional services that we offer and have provided.? However, if you accept the terms of this buyout offer, which we truly feel is quite fair and reasonable, then, we are prepared to be bought out and leave this extraordinary project to you both.? If this is your choice, either contact us, or have your attorney contact our attorney, Claudia Crocker, no later than Friday of this week.? The attorneys can then draft whatever minimal documents are necessary for the transfer of the Bishops Corner, Ltd. Partnership to you following receipt of the buyout amount and assumption of the outstanding professional design contracts. Thank you. ? Sincerely, [IMAGE] ? ? ? George W. Richards President P.S.????? Copies of contracts will be forwarded upon acceptance of buyout. ? 
I would support Matt Lenhart's promotion to the next level. 
Here is the buyout spreadsheet again with a slight tweak in the format.  The summary  presents the numbers as only $1400 in concessions. 
Gentlemen, Today I finally received some information on the status of the work done to date.  I spoke to Hugo Alexandro at Cuatro Consultants.  The property is still in two parcels.  Hugo has completed a platt to combine into one  lot and is ready to submit it to the city of San Marcos.  He has also completed a topographical survey and a tree survey.  In addition, he has begun to coordinate with the city on the replatting and a couple of easements on the smaller parcel, as well as, beginning the work on the grading.  Hugo is going to fax me a written letter of the scope of work he has been engaged to complete.  The total cost of his services are estimated at $38,000 of which $14,000 are due now for work completed. We are trying to resolve the issues of outstanding work and bills incurred by the original developer so we can obtain the title to the land.  If we can continue to use Cuatro then it would be one less point of contention.  Hugo's number is 512-295-8052.  I thought you might want to contact him directly and ask him some questions.  I spoke to him about the possibility of your call and he was fine with that. Now we are going to try and determine if any of the work performed by Kipp Flores can be used. Keith and I appreciate you meeting with us on Sunday.  We left very optimistic about the prospect of working with you on this project. Call me with feedback after you speak to Hugo or with any other ideas about moving this project forward. 
Here is the buyout spreadsheet again with a slight tweak in the format.  The summary  presents the numbers as only $1400 in concessions. 
Jacques, George finally sent me some information.  Please look over his email.  He wants us to buy him out.  Keith and I think this is a joke. We still need to speak to his engineer and find out about his soil study to determine if it has any value going forward.  I don't believe the architect work will be of any use to us.  I don't think they deserve any compensation for their time due to the fact that intentional or not the project they were proposing was unsupportable by the market. My version of a buyout is attached. I need your expert advise.  I am ready to offer my version or threaten to foreclose.  Do they have a case that they are due money for their time? Since their cost and fees didn't hold up versus the market and we didn't execute a contract, I wouldn't think they would stand a chance.  There isn't any time to waste so I want to respond to their offer asap. Call me with your thoughts. Phillip 
[IMAGE][IMAGE]??????????? ??????????? 8511 Horseshoe Ledge, Austin, TX? 78730-2840 Telephone (512) 338-1119? Fax(512)338-1103 E-Mail? cbpres@austin.rr.com ? ? ? ? March 13, 2001? Phillip Allen Keith Holst ENRON 1400 Smith Street Houston, TX? 77002-7361 
Dear Phillip and Keith: We are prepared to sell Bishops Corner, Ltd. for reimbursement of our cash expenditures; compensation for our management services and your assumption of all note obligations and design contracts.? As shown on the attached summary table, cash expenditures total $21,196 and existing contracts to the architect, civil engineer, soils testing company, and appraisal total $67,050.? The due on these contracts is $61,175, of which current unpaid invoices due total $37,325. Acting in good faith, we have invested an enormous amount of time into this project for more than five months and have completed most of the major design and other pre-construction elements.? As it is a major project for a firm of our size, it was given top priority with other projects being delayed or rejected, and we are now left with no project to pursue.? Two methods for valuing this development management are 1) based on a percentage of the minimum $1.4MM fee we were to have earned and 2) based on your prior valuation of our time.? For the first, we feel that at least 25%, or $350,000, of the minimum $1.4MM fee has been earned to date.? For the second, in your prior correspondence you valued our time at $500,000 per year, which would mean this period was worth $208,333.? Either of these valuations seem quite fair and reasonable, especially as neither includes the forfeit of our 40% interest in the project worth $0.8--$1.2MM. ?However, in the hope that we can maintain a good relationship with the prospect of future projects, we are willing to accept only a small monthly fee of $15,000 per month to cover a portion of our direct time and overhead.? As shown in the attached table, this fee, plus cash outlays and less accrued interest brings the total net buyout to $78,946.? We still believe that this project needs the professional services that we offer and have provided.? However, if you accept the terms of this buyout offer, which we truly feel is quite fair and reasonable, then, we are prepared to be bought out and leave this extraordinary project to you both.? If this is your choice, either contact us, or have your attorney contact our attorney, Claudia Crocker, no later than Friday of this week.? The attorneys can then draft whatever minimal documents are necessary for the transfer of the Bishops Corner, Ltd. Partnership to you following receipt of the buyout amount and assumption of the outstanding professional design contracts. Thank you. ? Sincerely, [IMAGE] ? ? ? George W. Richards President P.S.????? Copies of contracts will be forwarded upon acceptance of buyout. ? 
Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions.  Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. - 1494 How To File.pdf 
George, I didn't receive the information on work completed or started.  Please send it this morning. We haven't discussed how to proceed with the land.  The easiest treatment would be just to deed it to us.  However, it might be more advantageous to convey the partnership. Also, I would like to speak to Hugo today.  I didn't find a Quattro Engineering in Buda.  Can you put me in contact with him. Talk to you later. 
Let's have Matt start on the following: Database for hourly storage activity on Socal.  Begin forecasting hourly and daily activity by backing out receipts, using ISO load actuals and backing out real time imports to get in state gen numbers for gas consumption, and then using temps to estimate core gas load.  Back testing once he gets database created should help him forecast core demand. Update Socal and PG&E forecast sheets.  Also, break out new gen by EPNG and TW pipelines. Mike 
Lucy, Here is a rentroll for this week. What is the outstanding balance on #1.  It looks like 190 + 110(this week)= 300.  I don't think we should make him pay late fees if can't communicate clearly. #2 still owe deposit? #9  What day will she pay and is she going to pay monthly or biweekly. Have a good weekend.  I will talk to you next week. In about two weeks we should know for sure if these buyers are going to buy the property.  I will keep you informed. 
George, Thank you for the opportunity to review your financing request for the Sagewood Phase II project.  Upon receipt of all the requested information regarding the project, we completed somewhat of a due diligence on the market.  There are a number of concerns which need to be addressed prior to the Bank moving forward on the transaction.  First, the pro-forma rental rates, when compared on a Bedroom to Bedroom basis, are high relative to the market.   We adjusted pro-forma downward to match the market rates and the rates per bedroom we are acheiving on the existing Sagewood project.  Additionally, there are about 500+ units coming on-line within the next 12 months in the City of San Marcos, this, we believe will causes some downward rent pressures which can have a serious effect on an over leveraged project.  We have therefore adjusted the requested loan amount to $8,868,000. I have summarized our issues as follows: 1.  Pro-forma rental rates were adjusted downward to market as follows: Pro-Forma                           Bank's Adjustment Unit           Unit Rent Rent/BR    Unit Rent      Rent/BR 2 BR/2.5 BA         $1,150          $575           $950           $475 3 BR/Unit      $1,530         $510       $1,250         $417 2.  Pro-forma expenses were increased to include a $350/unit reserve for unit turn over. 3.  A market vacancy factor of 5% was applied to Potential Gross Income (PGI). 4.  Based on the Bank's revised N.O.I. of $1,075,000, the project can support debt in the amount of $8,868,000, and maintain our loan parameters of 1.25x debt coverage ratio, on a 25 year amo., and 8.60% phantom interest rate. 5.  The debt service will be approx. $874,000/year. 6.  Given the debt of $8,868,000, the Borrower will be required to provide equity of $2,956,000, consisting of the following: Land -                   $1,121,670 Deferred profit& Overhead     $    415,000 Cash Equity              $1,419,268 Total                    $2,955,938 7. Equity credit for deferred profit and overhead was limited to a percentage of actual hard construction costs. (See attached file: MAPTTRA.xls) - MAPTTRA.xls 
living. com Regarding Sale of Information 
please remove my name and information from the registered user list.  Do not sell my information. 
Darrell, Today I let the builder/developer know that I would not proceed with his excessively high cost estimates.  As he did not have the funds to take on the land himself, he was agreeable to turning over the land to me.  I would like to proceed and develop the property. My thought is to compare the financing between Bank One and FHA.  I would also like to compare construction and development services between what you can do and a local builder in San Marcos that I have been speaking with. Making a trip to meet you and take a look at some of your projects seems to be in order.  I am trying to get the status of engineering and architectural work to date.  Once again the architect is Kipp Florres and the engineer is Quattro Consultants out of Buda.  Let me know if you have an opinion about either. I look forward to working with you.  Talk to you tomorrow. 
Phillip: Here's a summary of our current forecast(s) for PNW hydro. Please give me a call when you have time, and I'll explain the old BiOp / new BiOp issue. Tim 
Reagan, Here is the cost estimate and proforma prepared by George and Larry.  I am faxing the site plan, elevation, and floor plans. 
Daryl, Here is the file that includes the proforma, unit costs, and comps.  This file was prepared by the builder/developer. The architect that has begun to work on the project is Kipp Flores.  They are in Austin. Thank you for your time this evening.  Your comments were very helpful.  I appreciate you and Greg taking a look at this project. Phillip Allen pallen@enron.com 
Al, I was not going to do the MS this year.  Thanks for the offer though. All is well here.  We went to Colorado last week and the kids learned to ski.  Work is same as always. How are things going at New Power?  Is there any potential? 
John, Did you put Frank Hayden up to this?  If this decision is up to me I would= =20 consider authorizing Mike G., Frank E., Keith H. and myself to trade west= =20 power.  What do you think? Phillip 
George, I am back in the office and ready to focus on the project.  I still have the concerns that I had last week.  Specifically that the costs of our project are too high.  I have gathered more information that support my concerns.  Based on my research, I believe the project should cost around $10.5 million.  The components are as follows: Unit Cost, Site work, & builders profit($52/sf)             $7.6 million Land                      1.15 Interim Financing               .85 Common Areas                     .80 Total                         $10.4 Since Reagan's last 12 units are selling for around $190,000, I am unable to get comfortable building a larger project at over $95,000/unit in costs. Also, the comps used in the appraisal from Austin appear to be class A properties.  It seems unlikely that student housing in San Marcos can produce the same rent or sales price.  There should adjustments for location and the seasonal nature of student rental property.  I recognize that Sagewood is currently performing at occupancy and $/foot rental rates that are closer to the appraisal and your pro formas, however, we do not believe that the market will sustain these levels on a permanent basis. Supply will inevitablely increase to drive this market more in balance. After the real estate expert from Houston reviewed the proforma and cost estimates, his comments were that the appraisal is overly optimistic.  He feels that the permanent financing would potentially be around $9.8 million.  We would not even be able to cover the interim financing. Keith and I have reviewed the project thoroughly and are in agreement that we cannot proceed with total cost estimates significantly above $10.5 million.   We would like to have a conference call Tuesday afternoon to discuss alternatives. Phillip 
George, I am back in the office and ready to focus on the project.  I still have the concerns that I had last week.  Specifically that the costs of our project are too high.  I have gathered more information that support my concerns. Based on my research, I believe the project should cost around $10.5 million.  The components are as follows: Unit Cost, Site work, & builders profit($52/sf)   $7.6 million Land      1.15 Interim Financing     .85 Common Areas       .80 Total     $10.4 Since Reagan's last 12 units are selling for around $190,000, I am unable to get comfortable building a larger project at over $95,000/unit in costs. Also, the comps used in the appraisal from Austin appear to be class A properties.  It seems unlikely that student housing in San Marcos can produce the same rent or sales price.  There should adjustments for location and the seasonal nature of student rental property.  I recognize that Sagewood is currently performing at occupancy and $/foot rental rates that are closer to the appraisal and your pro formas, however, we do not believe that the market will sustain these levels on a permanent basis.  Supply will inevitablely increase to drive this market more in balance. After the real estate expert from Houston reviewed the proforma and cost estimates, his comments were that the appraisal is overly optimistic.  He feels that the permanent financing would potentially be around $9.8 million. We would not even be able to cover the interim financing. Keith and I have reviewed the project thoroughly and are in agreement that we cannot proceed with total cost estimates significantly above $10.5 million. We would like to have a conference call tomorrow to discuss alternatives. Phillip 
I have not received the aircard 300 yet. 
Don, I was out last week.  Regarding the Montana supply, you can refer them to Mark Whitt in Denver. Let me know when you want to have the other meeting. Also, we frequently give out quotes to mid-marketers on Fred LaGrasta's desk or Enron marketers in New York where the customer is EES.  I don't understand why your people don't contact the desk directly. 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail Sorry, the deadline will have passed. Only Enron's deals through yesterday will be included in our survey. Anne.Bike@enron.com on 02/28/2001 04:57:52 PM 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail We will send it out this evening after we Calc our books.  Probably around 7:00 pm Anne liane_kucher@mcgraw-hill.com on 02/28/2001 01:43:44 PM 
/01 Attachment is free from viruses. Scan Mail Anne, Are you planning to send today's bidweek deals soon? I just need to know whether to transfer everything to the data base. Thanks, Liane Kucher 202-383-2147 
Please find attached the pro formas for the project in San Marcos. Thanks again. 
Lucy, Here are few questions regarding the 2/16 rentroll: #2  Has she actually paid the $150 deposit.  Her move in date was 2/6.  It is not on any rentroll that I can see. #9  Explain again what deposit and rent is transferring from #41 and when she will start paying on #9 #15  Since he has been such a good tenant for so long.  Stop trying to collect the $95 in question. #33  Missed rent.  Are they still there? #26  I see that she paid a deposit.  But the file says she moved in on 1/30. Has she ever paid rent?  I can't find any on the last three deposits. #44  Have the paid for February?  There is no payment since the beginning of the year. #33  You email said they paid $140 on 1/30 plus $14 in late fees, but I don't see that on the 1/26 or 2/2 deposit? The last three questions add up to over $1200 in missing rent.  I need you to figure these out immediately. I emailed you a new file for 2/23 and have attached the last three rentroll in case you need to research these questions. I will not be in the office next week.  If I can get connected you might be able to email me at pallen70@hotmail.com.  Otherwise try and work with Gary on pressing issues.  If there is an emergency you can call me at 713-410-4679. 
George, I can take a day off the week I get back from vacation.  Any day between March 5th-9th would work but Friday or Thursday would be my preference. Regarding the differences in the two estimates, I don't want to waste your time explaining the differences if the 1st forecast was very rough.  The items I listed moved dramatically.  Also, some of the questions were just clarification of what was in a number. Let's try and reach an agreement on the construction manager issue tomorrow morning. 
George, The numbers on your fax don't agree to the first estimate that I am using. Here are the two files I used. 
Phillip - George Richards asked that I drop you a line this morning to go over some details on the San Marcos project. 1.  First, do you know if I am to receive a personal financial statement from Keith?  I want to make sure my credit write-up includes all the principals in the transaction. 2.  Second, without the forward or take-out our typical Loan to Cost (LTC) will be in the range of 75% - 80%.  The proposed Loan to Value of 75% is within the acceptable range for a typical Multi-Family deal.  Given the above pro-forma performance on the Sagewood Townhomes, I am structuring the deal to my credit officer as an 80% LTC.  This, of course, is subject to the credit officer signing off on the deal. 3.  The Bank can not give dollar for dollar equity credit on the Developers deferred profit.  Typically, on past deals a 10% of total project budget as deferred profit has been acceptable. Thanks, Andrew Ozuna Real Estate Loan Officer 210-271-8386 ## 
You can fax it anytime.  But I saved the spreadsheets from the previous 
There have been some updates to the cost.  The principal change is in the addition of masonry on the front of the buildings, which I estimate will costs at least $84,000 additional.  Also, the trim material and labor costs have been increased.  I still believe that the total cost is more than sufficient, but there will be additional updates. The manager's unit is columns J-L, but the total is not included in the B&N total of rentable units.  Rather, the total cost for the manager's unit and office is included as a lump sum under amenities.  I may add this back in as a rentable unit and delete is as an amenity. The financing cost has been changed in that the cost of the permanent mortgage has been deleted because we will not need to obtain this for the construction loan approval, therefore, its cost will be absorbed when this loan is obtained. Based on either a loan equal to 75% of value or 80% of cost, the construction profit should cover any equity required beyond the land. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - SM134 Proforma2.xls 
Tomorrow is fine.  Talk to you then. 
Phillip and Keith, this cold of mine is getting the better of me.  Would it be possible to reschedule our meeting for tomorrow?  If so, please reply to this e-mail with a time.  I am open all day, but just need to get some rest this afternoon. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC 
Phillip, I spoke with AMF's broker today, and they will be satisfied with the deal if we can get the school to agree to limit the current land use restrictions to the terms that are in the existing agreement.  They do not want the school to come back at a later date for something different.  Doug Bell will meet with a school official on Monday to see what their thoughts are about the subject.  It would be hard for them to change the current agreement, but AMF wants something in writing to that effect.  I spoke to AMF's attorney today, and explained the situation.  They are OK with deal if AMF is satisfied. AMF's broker said that they will be ready to submit their site plan after the March 29 hearing.  We may close this deal in April. The Stage is still on go.  An assumption package has been sent to the buyer, and I have overnighted a copy of the contract and a description of the details to Wayne McCoy. I will be gone Thurs. and Fri. of this week.  I will be checking my messages. Jeff Smith The Smith Company 2714 Bee Cave Road, Suite 100-D Austin, Texas? 78746 512-732-0009 512-732-0010 fax 512-751-9728 mobile 
There have been some updates to the cost.  The principal change is in the addition of masonry on the front of the buildings, which I estimate will costs at least $84,000 additional.  Also, the trim material and labor costs have been increased.  I still believe that the total cost is more than sufficient, but there will be additional updates. The manager's unit is columns J-L, but the total is not included in the B&N total of rentable units.  Rather, the total cost for the manager's unit and office is included as a lump sum under amenities.  I may add this back in as a rentable unit and delete is as an amenity. The financing cost has been changed in that the cost of the permanent mortgage has been deleted because we will not need to obtain this for the construction loan approval, therefore, its cost will be absorbed when this loan is obtained. Based on either a loan equal to 75% of value or 80% of cost, the construction profit should cover any equity required beyond the land. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - SM134 Proforma2.xls 
The spinning bikes are so much better than the life cycles.  Would you consider placing several spinning bikes out with the other exercise equipment and running a spinning video on the TV's.  I think the equipment would be used much more.  Members could just jump on a bike and follow the video any time of day. Let me know if this is possible. Phillip Allen 
That would we very helpful. Thanks, 
Lucy, Thanks for clearing up the 2/2 file.  Moving on to 2/9, here are some questions: #1 It looks like he just missed 1/26&2/9 of $110.  I can't tell if he still owes $47 on his deposit. #13 I show she missed rent on 1/26 and still owes $140. #15 Try and follow up with Tomas about the $95.  Hopefully, he won't have a bad reaction. #20b Missed rent? #26  Has she paid any deposit or rent? #27 Missed rent? 
Lucy, Thanks for clearing up the 2/2 file.  Moving on to 2/9, here are some questions: #1 It looks like he just missed 1/26&2/9 of $110.  I can't tell if he still owes $47 on his deposit. #13 I show she missed rent on 1/26 and still owes $140. #15 Try and follow up with Tomas about the $95.  Hopefully, he won't have a bad reaction. #20b Missed rent? #26  Has she paid any deposit or rent? #27 Missed rent? 
Jaques, After meeting with George and Larry, it was clear that we have different definitions of cost and profit.  Their version includes the salary of a superintendent and a junior superintendent as hard costs equivalent to third 
George, Please send the latest cost estimates when you get a chance this morning. 
Jeanie, Lavorato called me into his office to question me about my inquiries into part time.  Nice confidentiality.  Since I have already gotten the grief, it would be nice to get some useful information.  What did you find out about part time, leave of absences, and sabbaticals?  My interest is for 2002. 
Enclosed is a copy of one of the draws submitted to Bank One for a prior job. George W. Richards Creekside Builders, LLC - DRAW2.xls 
> > > Jeff, > > Here is the application from SPB.  I guess they want to use the same form > as a new loan application.  I have a call in to Lee O'Donnell to try to > find out if there is a shorter form.  What do I need to be > providing to the > buyer according to the contract.  I was planning on bringing a copy of the > survey and a rentroll including deposits on Monday.  Please let me know > this morning what else I should be putting together. > > > Phillip > > 
> > > Lee, > > My fax number is 713-646-2391.  Please fax me a loan application > that I can > pass on to the buyer. > > Phillip Allen > pallen@enron.com > 713-853-7041 > > > (See attached file: Copy of Loan App.tif) > (See attached file: Copy of Multifamily forms) > > 
I would like to have a copy of the appraisal.  See you Monday at 2. 
Andrew, Here is an asset statement.  I will mail my 98 & 99 Tax returns plus a 2000 W2.  Is this sufficient? Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 wk 
Lee, Can you provide me with a copy of the original loan and a copy of the original appraisal. My fax number is 713-646-2391 Mailing address: 8855 Merlin Ct, Houston, TX 77055 Thank you, 
Jeff, Here is the application from SPB.  I guess they want to use the same form as a new loan application.  I have a call in to Lee O'Donnell to try to find out if there is a shorter form.  What do I need to be providing to the buyer according to the contract.  I was planning on bringing a copy of the survey and a rentroll including deposits on Monday.  Please let me know this morning what else I should be putting together. Phillip 
Forward Reg Dickson's resume to Ted Bland for consideration for the trading track program.  He is overqualified and I'm sure too expensive to fill the scheduling position I have available.  I will work with Cournie Parker to evaluate the other resumes. 
Lucy, Thanks for clearing up the 2/2 file.  Moving on to 2/9, here are some questions: #1 It looks like he just missed 1/26&2/9 of $110.  I can't tell if he still owes $47 on his deposit. #13 I show she missed rent on 1/26 and still owes $140. #15 Try and follow up with Tomas about the $95.  Hopefully, he won't have a bad reaction. #20b Missed rent? #26  Has she paid any deposit or rent? #27 Missed rent? 
Lee, My fax number is 713-646-2391.  Please fax me a loan application that I can pass on to the buyer. Phillip Allen pallen@enron.com 
Lucy, Here is the 2/2 rentroll.  The total does not equal the bank deposit.  Your earlier response answered the questions for #3,11,15,20a, and 35. But the deposit was $495 more than the rentroll adds up to.  If the answer to this question lies in apartment 1,13, and 14, can you update this file and send it back. Now I am going to work on a rentroll for this Friday.  I will probably send you some questions about the 2/9 rentroll.  Let's get this stuff clean today. 
As discussed in the California conference call this morning, I have prepared a bullet-point summary of the CERA Special Report titled Beyond the California Power Crisis: Impact, Solutions, and Lessons.If you have any questions, my phone number is 713 853-3170. Robert 
Lucy, Here is a rentroll for this week.  The one you sent for 11/24 looked good. It seems like most people are paying on time.  Did you rent an efficiency to the elderly woman on a fixed income?  Go ahead a use your judgement on the rent prices for the vacant units.  If you need to lower the rent by $10 or $20 to get things full, go ahead. I will be out of the office on Thursday.  I will talk to you on Friday. Phillip 
Colleen, I checked the transport model and found the following extrinsic values on January 2nd versus February 11: 1/2  2/11 Stanfield to Malin 209  81 SJ/Perm. to Socal 896  251 Sj to Socal  2747  768 PGE/Top to Citygate 51  3 PGE/Top to KRS 16  4 SJ to Valero  916  927 If these numbers are correct, then we haven't increased the extrinsic value since the beginning of the year.  Can you confirm that I am looking at the right numbers? 
Lucy, Here is a draft of a memo we should distribute to the units that are subject to caps.  I wrote it as if it were from you.  It should come from the manager. It is very important that we tell new tenants what the utility cap for there unit is when they move in.  This needs to be written in on their lease. When you have to talk to a tenant complaining about the overages emphasize that it is only during the peak months and it is already warming up. Have my Dad read the memo before you put it out.   You guys can make changes if you need to. Next week we need to take inventory of all air conditioners and refrigerators.  We have to get this done next week.  I will email you a form to use to record serial numbers.  The prospective buyers want this information plus we need it for our records.  Something to look forward to. It is 2 PM and I have to leave the office.  Please have my Dad call me with the information about the units at home 713-463-8626.  He will know what I mean. Talk to you later, 
I am sending the Dr. a contract for Monday delivery.  He is offering $739,000 with $73,900 down. He wants us to finish the work on the units that are being renovated now. We need to specify those units in the contract.  We also need to specify the units that have not been remodeled.  I think he will be a good buyer.  He is a local with plenty of cash.  Call me after you get this message. Jeff Smith The Smith Company 2714 Bee Cave Road, Suite 100-D Austin, Texas? 78746 512-732-0009 512-732-0010 fax 512-751-9728 mobile 
Lucy, Here is the rentroll for this Friday.  Sorry it is so late. There are a few problems with the rentroll from 2/2. 1.  I know you mentioned the deposit would be 5360.65 which is what the bank is showing, but the rentroll only adds up to 4865.   The missing money on the spreadsheet is probably the answer to my other questions below. 2.  #1 Did he pay the rent he missed on 1/26? 3.  #3 Did he miss rent on 1/26 and 2/2? 4.  #11 Missed on 2/2? 5.  #13 Missed on 1/26? 6.  #14  missed on 2/2? 7.  #15 missed on 2/2 and has not paid the 95 from 1/19? 8.  #20a missed on 2/2? 9.  #35 missed on 2/2? My guess is some of these were paid but not recorded on the 2/2 rentroll. You may have sent me a message over the ""chat"" line that I don't remember on some of these.  I just want to get the final rentroll to tie exactly to the bank deposit. Will have some time today to work on a utility letter.  Tried to call Wade last night at 5:30 but couldn't reach him.  Will try again today. I believe that a doctor from Seguin is going to make an offer.  Did you meet them?  If so, what did you think? 
I will email you an updated operating statement with Nov and Dec tomorrow morning.  What did the seguin doctor think of the place. How much could I get the stagecoach appraised for?  Do you still do 
Jacques, Can you draft the partnership agreement and the construction contract? The key business points are: 1.  Investment is a loan with prime + 1% rate 2.  Construction contract is cost plus $1.4 Million 3.  The investors' loan is repaid before any construction profit is paid. 4.  All parties are GP's but 3 out 4 votes needed for major decisions? 5.  60/40 split favoring the investors. With regard to the construction contract, we are concerned about getting a solid line by line cost estimate and clearly defining what constitutes costs.  Then we need a mechanism to track the actual expenses.  Keith and I would like to oversee the bookkeeping.  The builders would be requred to fax all invoices within 48 hours.  We also would want online access to the checking account of the partnership so we could see if checks were clearing but invoices were not being submitted. Let me know if you can draft these agreements.  The GP issue may need some tweaking. Phillip Allen 713-853-7041 pallen@enron.com 
Attached please find the spreadsheet containing the above referenced information. 
Here is a link to the governor's press release.  He is billing it as 5,000 MW of contracts, but then he says that there is only 500 available immediately. WIth the remainder available from 3 to 10 years. http://www.governor.ca.gov/state/govsite/gov_htmldisplay.jsp?BV_SessionID=@@@@ 1673762879.0981503886@@@@&BV_EngineID=falkdgkgfmhbemfcfkmchcng.0&sCatTitle=Pre ss+Release&sFilePath=/govsite/press_release/2001_02/20010206_PR01049_longtermc ontracts.html&sTitle=GOVERNOR+DAVIS+ANNOUNCES+LONG+TERM+POWER+SUPPLY&iOID=1325 0 
Send it to Ina Rangel she can forward it to appropriate traders.  There are 
Jeff, My target is to get $225 back out of the stage.  Therefore, I could take a sales price of $740K and carry a second note of $210K.  This would still only require $75K cash from the buyer.  After broker fees and a title policy, I would net around $20K cash. You can go ahead and negotiate with the buyer and strike the deal at $740 or higher with the terms described in the 1st email.  Do you want to give the New Braunfels buyer a quick look at the deal. 
Jeff, I am not willing to guarantee to refinance the 1st lien on the stage in 4 years and drop the rate on both notes at that point to 8%.  There are several reasons that I won't commit to this.  Exposure to interest fluctuations, the large cash reserves needed, and the limited financial resources of the buyer are the three biggest concerns. What I am willing to do is lower the second note to 8% amortized over the buyers choice of terms up to 30 years.  The existing note does not come due until September 2009.  That is a long time.  The buyer may have sold the property.  Interest rates may be lower.  I am bending over backwards to make the deal work with such an attractive second note.  Guaranteeing to refinance is pushing too far. Can you clarify the dates in the contract.  Is the effective date the day the earnest money is receipted or is it once the feasibility study is complete? Hopefully the buyer can live with these terms.  I got your fax from the New Braunfels buyer.  If we can't come to terms with the first buyer I will get started on the list. Email or call  me later today. Phillip 
Susan, Raised your issue to Sally Beck.  Larry is going to spend time with you to see if he can live without any reports.  Also some IT help should be on the way. 
When we meet,  I would like to address the following issues: 1.)  I had at least 5 people here past midnight on both nights and I have several people who have not left before 10:30 this week. 2.)  It is my understanding that Susan was still booking new day deals on Thursday night at 8:30 b/c she did not get deal tickets from the trading floor until after 5:00 p.m. 3.)  It is also my understanding that Susan is done with the p&l and benchmark part of her book often times by 6:00,  but that what keeps her here late is usually running numerous extra models and spreadsheets.  (One suggestion might be a permanent IT person on this book.)  (This was also my understanding from Kyle Etter,  who has left the company.) I would like to get this resolved as soon as possible so that Larry can get the information that he needs to be effective and so that we can run books like this and not lose good people. Thanks Larry May@ENRON 02/02/2001 02:43 PM 
As you might be aware,  Susan Scott (the book admin for the pipe option book) was forced by system problems to stay all night Wednesday night and until 200 am Friday  in order to calc my book.  While she is scheduled to rotate to the West desk soon,  I think we need to discuss putting two persons on my book in order to bring the work load to a sustainable level.  I'd like to meet at 2:30 pm on Monday to discuss this issue.  Please let me know if this time fits in your schedules. Thanks, Larry 
Lucy, Please fix #41 balance by deleting the $550 in the ""Rent Due"" column.  The other questions I had about last week's rent are: #15  Only paid 95 of their 190 on 1/19 then paid nothing on 1/26.  What is going on? #25  Looks like she was short by 35 and still owes a little on deposit #27 Switched to weekly, but paid nothing this week.  Why? I spoke to Jeff Smith.  I think he was surprised that we were set up with email and MSN Messenger.  He was not trying to insult you.  I let Jeff know that he should try and meet the prospective buyers when they come to see the property.  Occasionally, a buyer might stop buy without Jeff and you can show them around and let them know what a nice quiet well maintained place it is. Regarding the raise,  $260/week plus the apartment is all I can pay right now.  I increased your pay last year very quickly so you could make ends meet but I think your wages equate to $10/hr and that is fair.  As Gary and Wade continue to improve the property, I need you to try and improve the property's tenants and reputation.  The apartments are looking better and better, yet the turnover seems to be increasing. Remember that as a manager you need to set the example for the tenants.  It is hard to tell tenants that they are not supposed to have extra people move in that are not on the lease, when the manager has a houseful of guests.  I realize you have had a lot of issues with taking your son to the doctor and your daughter being a teenager, but you need to put in 40 hours and be working in the office or on the property during office unless you are running an errand for the property. I am not upset that you asked for a raise, but the answer is no at this time.  We can look at again later in the year. I will talk to you later or you can email or call over the weekend. Phillip 
Lucy, Please fix #41 balance by deleting the $550 in the ""Rent Due"" column.  The other questions I had about last week's rent are: #15  Only paid 95 of their 190 on 1/19 then paid nothing on 1/26.  What is going on? #25  Looks like she was short by 35 and still owes a little on deposit #27 Switched to weekly, but paid nothing this week.  Why? I spoke to Jeff Smith.  I think he was surprised that we were set up with email and MSN Messenger.  He was not trying to insult you.  I let Jeff know that he should try and meet the prospective buyers when they come to see the property.  Occasionally, a buyer might stop buy without Jeff and you can show them around and let them know what a nice quiet well maintained place it is. Regarding the raise,  $260/week plus the apartment is all I can pay right now.  I increased your pay last year very quickly so you could make ends meet but I think your wages equate to $10/hr and that is fair.  As Gary and Wade continue to improve the property, I need you to try and improve the property's tenants and reputation.  The apartments are looking better and better, yet the turnover seems to be increasing. Remember that as a manager you need to set the example for the tenants.  It is hard to tell tenants that they are not supposed to have extra people move in that are not on the lease, when the manager has a houseful of guests.  I realize you have had a lot of issues with taking your son to the doctor and your daughter being a teenager, but you need to put in 40 hours and be working in the office or on the property during office unless you are running an errand for the property. I am not upset that you asked for a raise, but the answer is no at this time.  We can look at again later in the year. I will talk to you later or you can email or call over the weekend. Phillip 
______________________________________________________________________________ _______ Get more from the Web.  FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com - rentroll_1124.xls 
I would like to go to this meeting.  Can you arrange it? 
As you might be aware,  Susan Scott (the book admin for the pipe option book) was forced by system problems to stay all night Wednesday night and until 200 am Friday  in order to calc my book.  While she is scheduled to rotate to the West desk soon,  I think we need to discuss putting two persons on my book in order to bring the work load to a sustainable level.  I'd like to meet at 2:30 pm on Monday to discuss this issue.  Please let me know if this time fits in your schedules. Thanks, Larry 
Susan hours are out of hand.  We need to find a solution.  Let's meet on Monday to assess the issue 
Got your email.  I will let Jacques know.  I guess we can work out the finer points next week.  The bank here in Houston is dealing with their auditors this week, so unfortunately I did not hear from them this week.  The are promising to have some feedback by Monday.  I will let you know as soon as I hear from them. 
George, The probability of building a house this year is increasing.  I have shifted to a slightly different plan.  There were too many design items that I could not work out in the plan we discussed previously.  Now, I am leaning more towards a plan with two wings and a covered courtyard in the center.  One wing would have a living/dining kitchen plus master bedroom downstairs with 3 kid bedrooms + a laundry room upstairs.  The other wing would have a garage + guestroom downstairs with a game room + office/exercise room upstairs.  This plan still has the same number of rooms as the other plan but with the courtyard and pool in the center this plan should promote more outdoor living.  I am planning to orient the house so that the garage faces the west. The center courtyard would be covered with a metal roof with some fiberglass skylights supported by metal posts.  I am envisioning the two wings to have single slope roofs that are not connected to the center building. I don't know if you can imagine the house I am trying to describe.  I would like to come and visit you again this month.  If it would work for you, I would like to drive up on Sunday afternoon on Feb. 18 around 2 or 3 pm.  I would like to see the progress on the house we looked at and tour the one we didn't have time for.  I can bring more detailed drawings of my new plan. Call or email to let me know if this would work for you. pallen70@hotmail.com or 713-463-8626(home), 713-853-7041(work) Phillip Allen PS.  Channel 2 in Houston ran a story yesterday (Feb. 2) about a home in Kingwood that had a poisonous strain of mold growing in the walls.  You should try their website or call the station to get the full story.  It would 
8500?????  That's twice as valuable as your car!  Can't you get a used one 
Nice.  how much? 
Testing.  Sell low and buy high 
testing 
Jeff, Before you write off the stage, a few things to think about. 1.  Operating expenses include $22,000 of materials for maintenance and repairs.  Plus having a full time onsite maintenance man means no extra labor cost for repairs.  There are only 44 units a lot of his time is spent on repairs. 2.  What is an outside management firm going to do?  A full time onsite manager is all that is required.  As I mentioned the prior manager has interest in returning.  Another alternative would be to hire a male manager that could do more make readies and lawn care.  If you turn it over to a management company you could surely reduce the cost of a full time manager onsite. 3.  Considering #1 & #2 $115,000 NOI is not necessarily overstated.  If you want to be ultra conservative use $100,000 at the lowest. 4.  Getting cash out is not a priority to me.  So I am willing to structure this deal with minimum cash.  A 10% note actually attractive. See below. My job just doesn't give me the time to manage this property.  This property definitely requires some time but it has the return to justify the effort. Sales Price  705,000 1st Lien   473,500 2nd Lien  225,000 Transfer fee    7,500 Cash required   14,500 NOI   100,000 1st Lien    47,292 2nd Lien   23,694 Cash flow  29,014 Cash on cash  200% These numbers are using the conservative NOI, if it comes in at $115K then cash on cash return would be more like 300%.   This doesn't reflect the additional profit opportunity of selling the property in the next few years for a higher price. Do you want to reconsider?  Let me know. Phillip 
Edison 
Edison 
The following are the highlights from the Executive Summary of the KPMG aud= it=20 report on Southern California Edison: =20 I. Cash Needs Highlights: SCE=01,s original cash forecast, dated as December 28, 2000, projects a com= plete=20 cash depletion date of February 1, 2001. Since then SCE has instituted a=20 program of cash conservation that includes suspension of certain obligation= s=20 and other measures.=20 Based on daily cash forecasts and cash conservation activities, SCE=01,s=20 available cash improved through January 19 from an original estimate of $51= .8=20 million to $1.226 billion. The actual cash flow, given these cash=20 conservation activities, extends the cash depletion date. II. Credit Relationships Highlights: SCE has exercised all available lines of credit and has not been able to=20 extend or renew credit as it has become due. At present, there are no additional sources of credit open to SCE. SCE=01,s loan agreements provide for specific clauses with respect to defau= lt.=20 Generally, these agreements provide for the debt becoming immediately due a= nd=20 payable. SCE=01,s utility plant assets are used to secure outstanding mortgage bond= =20 indebtedness, although there is some statutory capacity to issue more=20 indebtedness if it were feasible to do so. Credit ratings agencies have downgraded SCE=01,s credit ratings on most of = its=20 rated indebtedness from solid corporate ratings to below investment grade= =20 issues within the last three weeks. III. Energy Cost Scenarios Highlights This report section uses different CPUC supplied assumptions to assess=20 various price scenarios upon SCE=01,s projected cash depletion dates. Under= such=20 scenarios, SCE would have a positive cash balance until March 30, 2001. IV. Cost Containment Initiatives Highlights SCE has adopted a $460 million Cost Reduction Plan for the year 2001. The Plan consists of an operation and maintenance component and a capital= =20 improvement component as follows (in millions): Operating and maintenance costs     $ 77 Capital Improvement Costs                383 Total                                             $ 460 The Plan provides for up to 2,000 full, part-time and contract positions to= =20 be eliminated with approximately 75% of the total staff reduction coming fr= om=20 contract employees. Under the Plan, Capital Improvement Costs totaling $383 million are for the= =20 most part being deferred to a future date. SCE dividends to its common shareholder and preferred stockholders and=20 executive bonuses have been suspended, resulting in an additional cost=20 savings of approximately $92 million. V. Accounting Mechanisms to Track Stranded Cost Recovery (TRA and TCBA=20 Activity) Highlights: As of December 31, 2000, SCE reported an overcollected balance in the=20 Transition Cost Balancing Account (TCBA) Account of $494.5 million. This=20 includes an estimated market valuation of its hydro facilities of $500=20 million and accelerated revenues of $175 million. As of December 31, 2000, SCE reported an undercollected balance in SCE=01,s= =20 Transition Account (TRA) of $4.49 billion. Normally, the generation memorandum accounts are credited to the TCBA at th= e=20 end of each year. However, the current generation memorandum account credit= =20 balance of $1.5 billion has not been credited to the TCBA, pursuant to=20 D.01-01-018. Costs of purchasing generation are tracked in the TRA and revenues from=20 generation are tracked in the TCBA. Because these costs and revenues are=20 tracked separately, the net liability from procuring electric power, as=20 expressed in the TRA, are overstated. TURN Proposal As part of our review, the CPUC asked that we comment on the proposal of TU= RN=20 to change certain aspects of the regulatory accounting for transition asset= s.=20 Our comments are summarized as follows: The Proposal would have no direct impact on the cash flows of SCE in that i= t=20 would not directly generate nor use cash. The Proposal=01,s impact on SCE=01,s balance sheet would initially be to sh= ift=20 costs between two regulatory assets. TURN=01,s proposal recognizes that because the costs of procuring power and= the=20 revenues from generating power are tracked separately, the undercollection = in=20 the TRA is overstated. VI. Flow of Funds Analysis Highlights: In the last five years, SCE had generated net income of $2.7 billion and a= =20 positive cash flow from operations of $7 billion. During the same time period, SCE paid dividends and other distributions to= =20 its parent, Edison International, of approximately $4.8 billion. Edison International used the funds from dividends to pay dividends to its= =20 shareholders of $1.6 billion and repurchased shares of its outstanding comm= on=20 stock of $2.7 billion, with the remaining funds being used for administrati= ve=20 and general costs, investments, and other corporate purposes. [there is no Section VII] =20 VIII. Earnings of California Affiliates SCE=01,s payments for power to its affiliates were approximately $400-$500= =20 million annually and remained relatively stable from 1996 through 1999.=20 In 2000, the payments increased by approximately 50% to over $600 million.= =20 This increase correlates to the increase in market prices for natural gas for the same period. A copy of the report is available on the Commission website at=20 www.cpuc.ca.gov. =20 Dan 
George, In response to your ideas Time and cost 1.  I realize that asking for a fixed price contract would result in the 
Lucy, What is the latest?  Write me a note about what is going on and what issues you need my help to deal with when you send the rentroll. Phillip 
Here's the link for the audit report 
This email came in to parties to the CPUC proceeding.  The materials should be available on the CPUC website, www.cpuc.ca.gov.  The full reports will be available.  ABB Parties, this e-mail note is to inform you that the KPMG audit report will be posted on the web as of 7:00 p.m on January 29, 2001.  You will see the following documents on the web: 1. President Lynch's statement 2. KPMG audit report of Edison 3. Ruling re: confidentiality Here is the link to the web site: http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/010129_audit_index.htm -- Andrew Brown Sacramento, CA andybrwn@earthlink.net 
George, Keith and I are reviewing your proposal.  We will send you a response by this evening. 
Phillip here is the information you requested. Shares  Vest date Grant Price 4584  12-31-01 18.375 3200 1600 12-31-01 20.0625 1600 12-31-02 20.0625 9368 3124 12-31-01 31.4688 3124 12-31-02 31.4688 3120 12-31-03 31.4688 5130 2565 1-18-02  55.50 2565 1-18-03  55.50 7143 2381 8-1-01  76.00 2381 8-1-02  76.00 2381 8-1-03  76.00 24 12 1-18-02  55.50 12 1-18-03  55.50 Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions.  Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. 
Jeff, That is good news about Leander. Now for the stage.  I would like to get it sold by the end of March.   I have about $225K invested in the stagecoach, it looks like I need to get around $745K to breakeven. I don't need the cash out right now so if I could get a personal guarantee and Jaques Craig can work out the partnership transfer, I would definitely be willing to carry a second lien.  I understand second liens are going for 10%-12%. Checkout this spreadsheet. These numbers should get the place sold in the next fifteen minutes. However,  I am very concerned about the way it is being shown.  Having Lucy show it is not a good idea.  I need you to meet the buyers and take some trips over to get more familar with the property.  My dad doesn't have the time and I don't trust Lucy or Wade to show it correctly.  I would prefer for you to show it from now on. I will have the operating statements complete through December by this Friday. Phillip 
George, Here is a spreadsheet that illustrates the payout of investment and builders profit.  Check my math, but it looks like all the builders profit would be recouped in the first year of operation.  At permanent financing $1.1 would be paid, leaving only .3 to pay out in the 1st year. Since almost 80% of builders profit is repaid at the same time as the investment, I feel the 65/35 is a fair split.  However, as I mentioned earlier, I think we should negotiate to layer on additional equity to you as part of the construction contract. Just to begin the brainstorming on what a construction agreement might look like here are a few ideas: 1.  Fixed construction profit of $1.4 million.  Builder doesn't benefit from higher cost, rather suffers as an equity holder. 2.  +5% equity for meeting time and costs in original plan ($51/sq ft, phase 1 complete in November) +5% equity for under budget and ahead of schedule -5% equity for over budget and behind schedule This way if things go according to plan the final split would be 60/40, but could be as favorable as 55/45.  I realize that what is budget and schedule must be discussed and agreed upon. Feel free to call me at home (713)463-8626 Phillip 
George, We should hear from the bank in Houston on Monday. The best numbers and times to reach me: work 713-853-7041 fax 713-464-2391 cell 713-410-4679 home 713-463-8626 pallen70@hotmail.com (home) pallen@enron.com (work) I am usually at work M-F 7am-5:30pm.  Otherwise try me at home then on my cell. Keiths numbers are: work 713-853-7069 fax 713-464-2391 cell 713-502-9402 home 713-667-5889 kholst@enron.com Phillip 
Dexter, You should receive a guest id shortly. 
Griff, Can you accomodate Dexter as we have in the past.  This has been very helpful in establishing a fair index at Socal Border. Phillip Please cc me on the email with a guest password.  The sooner the better as bidweek is underway. 
Phillip, I was wondering if I could trouble you again for another guest id for eol. In previous months, it has helped us here at NGI when we go to set indexes. I appreciate your help on this. Dexter 
George, I received the drawings.  They look good at first glance.  I will look at them in depth this weekend.  The proforma was in the winmail.dat format which I cannot open.  Please resend in excel or a pdf format.  If you will send it to pallen70@hotmail.com, I will be able to look at it this weekend.  Does this file have a timeline for the investment dollars?  I just want to get a feel for when you will start needing money. 
Patti, This sounds like an opportunity to land a couple of analyst to fill the gaps in scheduling.  Remember their rotations last for one year.  Do you want to be an interviewer? Phillip 
Nick, There is a specific program that we are using to recruit, train, and mentor new traders on the gas and power desks.    The trading track program is being coordinated by Ted Bland.  I have forwarded him your resume.  Give him a call and he will fill you in on the details of the program. 
Lucy, #32 and #29 are fine. #28 paid weekly on 1/5.  Then he switched to biweekly.  He should have paid 260 on 1/12.  Two weeks rent in advance.  Instead he paid 260 on 1/19.  He either needs to get back on schedule or let him know he is paying in the middle of his two weeks.  He is only paid one week in advance.  This is not a big deal, but you should be clear with tenants that rent is due in advance. Here is an updated rentroll.  Please use this one instead of the one I sent you this morning. Finally, can you fax me the application and lease from #9. 
Lucy, Here is a rentroll for this week.  I still have questions on #28,#29, and #32. 
Larry, I met with a banker that is interested in financing the project.  They need the following: Financial statements plus last two years tax returns. Builders resume listing similar projects The banker indicated he could pull together a proposal by Friday.  If we are interested in his loan, he would want to  come see the site. If you want to overnight me the documents, I will pass them along.   You can send them to my home or office (1400 Smith, EB3210B, Houston, TX 77002). The broker is Jim Murnan.  His number is 713-781-5810, if you want to call him and send the documents to him directly. It sounds like the attorneys are drafting the framework of the partnership agreement.  I would like to nail down the outstanding business points as soon as possible. Please email or call with  an update. 
By STEVE EVERLY - The Kansas City Star 
Paula, I looked over the plan.  It looks fine. 
Jeff, Here is a recent rentroll.  I understand another looker went to the property.  I want to hear the feedback no matter how discouraging. I am in Portland for the rest of the week.  You can reach me on my cell phone 713-410-4679.  My understanding was that you would be overnighting some closing statements for Leander on Friday.  Please send them to my house (8855 Merlin Ct, Houston, TX 77055). Call me if necessary. Phillip 
_________________________________________________________________ Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com - rentroll_investors_0112.xls 
Larry, The wire should go out today.  I am in Portland but can be reached by cell phone 713-410-4679.  Call me if there are any issues.  I will place a call to my attorney to check on the loan agreement. 
Lucy, Why did so many tenants not pay this week? #12 95 #21 240 #27 120 #28 260 #33 260 Total 975 It seems these apartments just missed rent.  What is up? Other questions: #9-Why didn't they pay anything?  By my records, they still owe $40 plus rent should have been due on 12/12 of $220. #3-Why did they short pay? 
Kristin, Thank you for the California update.  Please continue to include me in all further intellegence reports regarding the situation in California. 
Andrea, Please resend the first three resumes. 
Here's our first cut at a full year hydro projection:  Please keep confidential. 
Enclosed is the cost breakdown for the appraiser.  Note that the construction management fee (CMF) is stated at 12.5% rather than our standard rate of 10%.  This will increase cost and with a loan to cost ratio of 75%, this will increase the loan amount and reduce required cash equity. Also, we are quite confident that the direct unit and lot improvement costs are high.  Therefore, we should have some additional room once we have actual bids, as The Met project next door is reported to have cost $49 psf without overhead or CMF, which is $54-55 with CMF. It appears that the cash equity will be $1,784,876.  However, I am fairly sure that we can get this project done with $1.5MM. I hope to finish the proforma today.  The rental rates that we project are $1250 for the 3 ADA units, $1150-1200 for the 2 bedroom and $1425 for the 3 bedroom.  Additional revenues could be generated by building detached garages, which would rent for $50-75 per month. - winmail.dat 
Jim, Here are the key gas contacts. Work   Home   Cell Phillip Allen  X37041   713-463-8626  713-410-4679 Mike Grigsby  X37031   713-780-1022  713-408-6256 Keith Holst  X37069   713-667-5889  713-502-9402 Please call me with any significant developments. 
Lucy, The apartments that have new tenants since December 15th are: 1,2,8,12,13,16,20a,20b,25,32,38,39. Are we running an apartment complex or a motel? Please update all lease information on the 1/12 rentroll and email it to me this afternoon. 
Larry, Do you want the loan and wire amount to be for exactly $1.1 million. 
Thanks for representing Matt. 
George, Here is a spreadsheet that illustrates the payout of investment and builders profit.  Check my math, but it looks like all the builders profit would be recouped in the first year of operation.  At permanent financing $1.1 would be paid, leaving only .3 to pay out in the 1st year. Since almost 80% of builders profit is repaid at the same time as the investment, I feel the 65/35 is a fair split.  However, as I mentioned earlier, I think we should negotiate to layer on additional equity to you as part of the construction contract. Just to begin the brainstorming on what a construction agreement might look like here are a few ideas: 1.  Fixed construction profit of $1.4 million.  Builder doesn't benefit from higher cost, rather suffers as an equity holder. 2.  +5% equity for meeting time and costs in original plan ($51/sq ft, phase 1 complete in November) +5% equity for under budget and ahead of schedule -5% equity for over budget and behind schedule This way if things go according to plan the final split would be 60/40, but could be as favorable as 55/45.  I realize that what is budget and schedule must be discussed and agreed upon. Feel free to call me at home (713)463-8626 Phillip 
Lucy, Here is a schedule of the most recent utility bills and the overages.  There are alot of overages.  It will probably get worse this month because of all the cold weather. You need to be very clear with all new tenants about the electricity cap. This needs to be handwritten on all new leases. I am going to fax you copies of the bills that support this spreadsheet.  We also need to write a short letter remind everyone about the cap and the need to conserve energy if they don't want to exceed their cap.  I will write something today. Wait until you have copies of the bills and the letter before you start collecting. 
We do not understand our VAR.  Can you please get us all the detailed reports and component VAR reports that you can produce? The sooner the better. 
Ted, Andrea in the analysts pool asked me to fill out this request.  Can you help expedite this process? Phillip 
Frank, Did you receive the information about the San Marcos apartments.  I have left several messages at your office to follow up.  You mentioned that your plate was fairly full.  Are you too busy to look at this project?  As I mentioned I would be interested in speaking to you as an advisor or at least a sounding board for the key issues. Please email or call. Phillip Allen pallen@enron.com 
Faith, Regarding the 2001 plan, the members of the west desk are as follows: Name   Title Trading Phillip Allen  VP Mike Grigsby  Director Keith Holst  Manager(possible Director) Janie Tholt  Director Steve South  Director Frank Ermis  Manager Tori Kuykendall  Manager Matt Lenhart  Analyst(possible associate) Monique Sanchez Commercial Support Manager Jay Reitmeyer  Senior Specialist Ina Rangel  Assistant (split costs with middle market) Marketing Barry Tycholiz  Director Mark Whitt  Director Paul Lucci  Manager (possible Director) 2-3 TBD Do I need to give you the names of our operations group? Special Pays-  I believe Mike Grigsby has a retention payment due this year. Also we should budget for another $150,000 of special payments. I know you have been working with Barry T.  if his headcount is different on the Marketing staff use his numbers.  Let me know if there is anything else you need. Phillip 
Questions about 12/29 rentroll: There were two deposits that were not labeled.  One for $150 and the other for $75.  Which apartments?  20a or #13? Utility overages for #26 and #44?  Where did you get these amounts?  For what periods? What is going on with #42.   Do not evict this tenant for being unclean!!! That will just create an apartment that we will have to spend a lot of money and time remodeling.  I would rather try and deal with this tenant by first asking them to clean their apartment and fixing anything that is wrong like leaky pipes.  If that doesn't work, we should tell them we will clean the apartment and charge them for the labor.  Then we will perform monthly inspections to ensure they are not damaging the property.  This tenant has been here since September 1998, I don't want to run them off. I check with the bank and I did not see that a deposit was made on Tuesday so I couldn't check the total from the rentroll against the bank.  Is this right?  Has the deposit been made yet? A rentroll for Jan 5th will follow shortly. 
comments/suggestions 
Trading Profits P. Allen  200 M. Grigsby 463 Rest of Desk 282 Total  945 I view my bonus as partly attributable to my own trading and partly to the group's performance.  Here are my thoughts. Minimum  Market   Maximum Cash  2 MM   4 MM   6 MM Equity  2 MM   4 MM   6 MM Here are Mike's numbers.  I have not made any adjustments to them. Minimum  Market   Maximum Cash  2 MM   3 MM   4 MM Equity  4 MM   7 MM   12 MM I have given him an ""expectations"" speech, but you might do the same at some point. Phillip 
Larry, I was able to scan my 98 & 99 tax returns into Adobe.  Here they are plus the excel file is a net worth statement.  If you have any trouble downloading or printing these files let me know and I can fax them to you.   Let's talk later today. Phillip P.S.  Please remember to get Jim Murnan the info. he needs. 
Gentlemen, I continue to speak to an attorney for help with the investment structure and a mortgage broker for help with the financing.  Regarding the financing, I am working with Jim Murnan at Pinnacle Mortgage here in Houston.  I have sent him some information on the project, but he needs financial information on you.  Can you please send it to him.  His contact information is:  phone (713)781-5810, fax (713)781-6614, and email jim123@pdq.net. I know Larry has been working with a bank and they need my information.  I hope to pull that together this afternoon. I took the liberty of calling Thomas Reames from the Frog Pond document.  He was positive about his experience overall.  He did not seem pleased with the bookkeeping or information flow to the investor.  I think we should discuss these procedures in advance. Let's continue to speak or email frequently as new developments occur. 
Jim, I would appreciate your help in locating financing for the project I described to you last week.  The project is a 134 unit apartment complex in San Marcos.  There will be a builder/developer plus myself and possibly a couple of other investors involved.  As I mentioned last week, I would like to find interim financing (land, construction, semi-perm) that does not require the investors to personally guarantee.  If there is a creative way to structure the deal, I would like to hear your suggestions.  One idea that has been mentioned is to obtain a ""forward commitment"" in order to reduce the equity required.  I would also appreciate hearing from you how deals of this nature are normally financed.  Specifically, the transition from interim to permanent financing.  I could use a quick lesson in what numbers will be important to banks. I am faxing you a project summary.  And I will have the builder/developer email or fax his financial statement to you. Let me know what else you need.  The land is scheduled to close mid January. 
Jeff, Everything should be done for closing on the Leander deal on the 29th.  I have fed ex'd the closing statements and set up a wire transfer to go out tomorrow.    When will more money be required?  Escrow for roads?  Utility connections?  Other rezoning costs? What about property taxes?  The burnet land lost its ag exemption while I owned it.  Are there steps we can take to hold on to the exemption on this property?  Can you explain the risks and likelihood of any rollback taxes once the property is rezoned?  Do we need to find a farmer and give him grazing rights? What are the important dates coming up and general status of rezoning and annexing?  I am worried about the whole country slipping into a recession and American Multifamily walking on this deal.  So I just want to make sure we are pushing the process as fast as we can. 
Faith, Regarding the 2001 plan, the members of the west desk are as follows: Name   Title Trading Phillip Allen  VP Mike Grigsby  Director Keith Holst  Manager(possible Director) Janie Tholt  Director Steve South  Director Frank Ermis  Manager Tori Kuykendall  Manager Matt Lenhart  Analyst(possible associate) Monique Sanchez Commercial Support Manager Jay Reitmeyer  Senior Specialist Ina Rangel  Assistant (split costs with middle market) Marketing Barry Tycholiz  Director Mark Whitt  Director Paul Lucci  Manager (possible Director) 2-3 TBD Do I need to give you the names of our operations group? Special Pays-  I believe Mike Grigsby has a retention payment due this year. Also we should budget for another $150,000 of special payments. I know you have been working with Barry T.  if his headcount is different on the Marketing staff use his numbers.  Let me know if there is anything else you need. Phillip 
Steve, I am sending you a variety of charts with prices and operational detail.  If you need to call with questions my home number is 713-463-8626. As far as recommendations, here is a short list: 1.  Examine LDC's incentive rate program.  Current methodology rewards sales above monthly index without enough consideration of future replacement cost.  The result is that the LDC's sell gas that should be injected into storage when daily prices run above the monthly index. This creates a shortage in later months. 2.  California has the storage capacity and pipeline capacity to meet demand.  Investigate why it wasn't maximized operationally. Specific questions should include: 1.  Why in March '00-May '00  weren't total system receipts higher in order to fill storage? 2.  Why are there so many examples of OFO's on weekends that push away too much gas from Socal's system. I believe Socal gas does an extremely poor job of forecasting their own demand.  They repeatedly estimated they would receive       more gas than their injection capablity, but injected far less. 3.  Similar to the power market,  there is too much benchmarking to short term prices.  Not enough forward hedging is done by the major LDCs.  By design the customers are short at a floating rate.  This market has been long historically.  It has been a buyers market and the consumer has benefitted. Call me if you need any more input. 
Monique Sanchez Jay Reitmeyer Randy Gay 
John, Here is our North of Stanfield forecast for Jan. Supply    Jan '01   Dec '00   Jan '00 Sumas   900   910   815 Jackson Pr.  125    33   223 Roosevelt  300   298   333 Total Supply  1325   1241   1371 Demand North of Chehalis 675   665   665 South of Chehalis 650   575   706 Total Demand  1325   1240   1371 Roosevelt capacity is 495. Let me know how your forecast differs. Phillip 
Please assign global id's to the four junior traders listed on Dawn's original email.  The are all trading and need to have unique id's. 
Received the fax.  Thank you.  I might have to sell the QQQ and take the loss for taxes.  But I would roll right into a basket of individual technology stocks.  I think I mentioned this to you previously that I have decided to 
George & Larry, If possible,  I would like to get together in Columbus as Larry suggested. Thursday afternoon is the only day that really works for me. Let me know if that would work for you.  I was thinking around 2  or 2:30 pm. I will try to email you any questions I have from the latest proforma tomorrow. Phillip 
Jeff, Hear is a new NOI file.  I have added an operating statement for 1999 (partial year). I will try to email you some photos soon. Phillip 
Jeff, The files attached contain a current rentroll, 2000 operating statement, and a proforma operating statement. 
George, The other files opened fine, but I can't open winmail.dat files.  Can you resend this one in a pdf format.? Thanks, 
Larry, 10 AM tomorrow is good for me.  If you want to email me anything tonight, please use pallen70@hotmail.com. 
Lucy, I want to get the lease data and tenant data updated. The critical information is  1.  Move in or lease start date 2.  Lease expiration date 3.  Rent 4.  Deposit If you have the info you can fill in these items  1.  Number of occupants 2.  Workplace All the new leases should be the long form. The apartments that have new tenants since these columns have been updated back in October are  #3,5,9,11,12,17,21,22,23,25,28,33,38. I really need to get this by tomorrow.  Please use the rentroll_1215 file to input the correct information on all these tenants.  And email it to me tomorrow.  You should have all this information on their leases and applications. 
Lucy, Here is a new file for 12/15. For the rentroll for 12/08 here are my questions: #23 & #24 did not pay.  Just late or moving? #25 & #33 Both paid 130 on 12/01 and $0 on 12/08.  What is the deal? #11  Looks like she is caught up.  When is she due again? Please email the answers. Phillip 
Attached  are two files that illustrate the following: As prices rose, supply increased and demand decreased.  Now prices are beginning to fall in response these market responses. 
Phillip, How are you today I am very busy but I have to let you know that #37 I.Knockum is pd up untill 11/17/00 because on 10/26/00 she pd 250.00 so i counted and tat pays her up untill 10/26/ or did i count wrong? Lucy says: she pays 125.00 a week but she'sgoing on vacation so thjat is why she pd more Lucy says: I have all the deposit ready but she isn't due on this roll I just wanted to tell you because you might think she didn't pay or something Lucy says: the amnt is:4678.00 I rented #23 aand #31 may be gone tonight I have been putting in some overtime trying to rent something out i didnt leave last night untill 7:00 and i have to wait for someone tonight that works late. phillip says: send me the rentroll when you can phillip says: Did I tell you that I am going to try and be there this Fri & Sat Lucy says: no you didn't tell me that you were going to be here but wade told me this morning I sent you the roll did you get it? Did you need me here this weekend because I have a sweet,sixteen I'm getting ready for and if you need me here Sat,then I will get alot done before then. phillip says: We can talk on Friday Lucy says: okay see ya later bye. Lucy says: I sent you the roll did you get it ? phillip says: yes thank you The following message could not be delivered to all recipients: yes thank you 
Ina, Where can we put Barry T.? Phillip 
I will be relocating to 32 effective Dec. 4.  Can you have me set up with all the required equipment including, PC ( 2 Flat screens), Telephone, and cell phone. Talk to Phillip regarding where to set my seat up for right now. Thanks in advance. . Barry If there are any questions... Give me a call.  ( 403-) 245-3340. 
George, Just a note to check in.  Are there any new developments? 
Faith, Regarding the 2001 plan, the members of the west desk are as follows: Name   Title Trading Phillip Allen  VP Mike Grigsby  Director Keith Holst  Manager(possible Director) Janie Tholt  Director Steve South  Director Frank Ermis  Manager Tori Kuykendall  Manager Matt Lenhart  Analyst(possible associate) Monique Sanchez Commercial Support Manager Jay Reitmeyer  Senior Specialist Ina Rangel  Assistant (split costs with middle market) Marketing Barry Tycholiz  Director Mark Whitt  Director Paul Lucci  Manager (possible Director) 2-3 TBD Do I need to give you the names of our operations group? Special Pays-  I believe Mike Grigsby has a retention payment due this year. Also we should budget for another $150,000 of special payments. I know you have been working with Barry T.  if his headcount is different on the Marketing staff use his numbers.  Let me know if there is anything else you need. Phillip 
Phillip, Here is your hotel itinerary for Monday night. -Ina 
SALES AGT: JS/ZBATUD ALLEN/PHILLIP ENRON 1400 SMITH HOUSTON TX 77002 INA RANGEL X37257 DATE:  NOV 03 2000                   ENRON HOTEL                 06NOV DOUBLETREE DURANGO 07NOV 501 CAMINO DEL RIO DURANGO, CO 81301 TELEPHONE: (970) 259-6580 CONFIRMATION: 85110885 REFERENCE: D1KRAC RATE: RAC USD 89.00 PER NIGHT GHT ADDITIONAL CHARGES MAY APPLY INVOICE TOTAL                  0 THANK YOU *********************************************** **48 HR CANCELLATION REQUIRED** THANK YOU FOR CALLING VITOL TRAVEL __________________________________________________ Do You Yahoo!? From homework help to love advice, Yahoo! Experts has your answer. http://experts.yahoo.com/ 
As noted in my  last e-mail, the Ray Nixon expansion project in Colorado had the incorrect start date.  My last report showed an online date of May 2001; the actual anticipated online date is May 2003. The following list ranks the quality and quantity of information that I have access to in the WSCC: 1) CA - siting office, plant contacts 2) PNW - siting offices, plant contacts 3) DSW - plant contacts, 1 siting office for Maricopa County Arizona. 4) Colorado - Integrated Resource Plan If anyone has additional information regarding new generation in the Desert Southwest or Colorado, such as plant phone numbers or contacts, I would greatly appreciate receiving this contact information. 
_________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com. Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at http://profiles.msn.com. - rentroll_1027.xls - rentroll_1103.xls 
George, Your attachment is not opening on my computer.  Can you put the info in Word instead? Thanks, Phillip 
Please excuse the delay in getting these resumes to you.  Larry did not have his prepared and then I forgot to send them.  I'll try to get a status report to you latter today. - winmail.dat 