Leslie,after seeing point # 3 in writing , I would be extremely reluctant to submit. This kind of conjecture about  market manipulation , coming from us. would only serve to fuel the fires of the naysayers- I would delete. Thanks. 
Leslie,after seeing point # 3 in writing , I would be extremely reluctant to submit. This kind of conjecture about  market manipulation , coming from us. would only serve to fuel the fires of the naysayers- I would delete. Thanks. 
As we discussed....... as much flesh as we can put on this by midday tommorrow would be quite helpful. I would think there are significant aggregation opportunities available to us once this is implemented. Let me know what else you need from me. Thanks. 
Attached please find the Regulatory Risk-Responsibility Matrix developed by Jim Steffes.   One of the first steps in building the Regulatory Risk process is to establish responsibility for the current assets owned/managed by Enron.    The matrix provides a listing of assets that Jim has pulled together, however, there my be more that you know about.  Please indicate the person(s) who will manage the Regulatory Risk with each of these assets and if there are additional assets not noted on the matrix, please inform me of them by Friday, February 18. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call with questions. 
We need to all talk Tuesday morning ASAP - I am frankly sick and  tired of self-delusion in the face of a stark and bleak reality in Sacramento- As a Democrat, it is clear to me that the Democrats from Gray on down are a lost cause( their response, from a public policy perspective, is shameful in its shortsidedness and contemptible in its lack of thoughtfulness and intellect- the Democrat's response in Cal. makes me ashamed to call myself a Democrat) and the Republicans too small a minority in Ca. to make a difference- From my vantage point ,nothing good and some( potentially much) bad came out of the three bills passed. We have a huge uphill battle coming in the next session and the prospects of further thoughtless retrenchment on the part of the Governor and legislature very high- to begin the preperation for that struggle,  we first have to be honest with ourselves and end any petty bickering internally on intrepretations of brutally clear  events and oucomes, events and outcomes which are the equivalent of getting hit upside the head by a 2 by  4, i.e; that usually does'nt require intrepretation or discussion as to whether it hurt... We end the self-delusion starting on Tuesday. Jeff- please arrange the call - all are invited . Sandra McCubbin 09/02/2000 01:44 PM 
since the siting legislation created only a program that is voluntary and not in place of the existing laws, and we have a committment from the legislature, the CEC and the govenor's office to take another shot in January, as they know that this legislation is flawed, too many conflicting interests trying to solve a complex problem in too short a time, I feel this is too harsh...we have already started the process of creating new legislation, that will be as close to a consensus as possible for next session..this legislation did not hurt us, and, some companies feel that they can use the processes.  We have to keep in mind that with the knowledge that there will be major reorganization legislation next year, we don't want to offend the friends that we have in Sacramento, particularly the Republicans who were the ones who insisted on an expedited siting bill 
Please call the GAP lady- you're the right person. Thanks. 
I am going to be the Senior Regulatory Counsel at ISO New England starting on April 9, 2001.   My last day in the Portland area will be March 31, 2001.  I enjoyed working with you and wish you the best of everything.  My new address will be: Mary Hain Senior Regulatory Counsel ISO New England Inc. One Sullivan Road Holyoke, MA  01040-2841 (413) 535-4000 mhain@ISO-NE.com 
$25 not applicable to those on vacation. Bet they love the lime shirt down there. 
London and the presentation were good- only changes were a few updates. Thanks for your help! 
> > Calif Gov To Make 'Important' Energy Announcement Thurs > LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--In a highly unusual move, California Gov. Gray > Davis Tuesday requested radio and television stations in the state to > clear five minutes of time Thursday evening so he can make an important > announcement regarding the state's energy crisis. > Davis is expected to deliver a speech at 6:05 p.m. PST and will likely > talk about the state's conservation efforts, a 4,000 megawatt shortfall > expected next month, the need to bring new generation online, recent rate > hikes ordered by the California Public Utilities Commission, and the > possibility for further rate increases this summer to keep the state's > three investor-owned utilities solvent, sources close to Davis told Dow > Jones Newswires. > The source said Davis is not expected to discuss a final agreement to buy > the power lines owned by PG&E Corp., unit Pacific Gas & Electric, Edison > International's unit, Southern California Edison, and Sempra Energy's > unit, San Diego Gas & Electric. > Davis' press secretary, Steve Maviglio, would not comment on Davis' > speech. > In a memo to the media, Davis' office said the governor will ""deliver an > important live address on energy from his office in Sacramento. During > this historic address to the people of California, the governor will speak > in detail about California's energy emergency and make an important 
I think these are quite good...the missing piece, I would argue, that we need to include is a talking point on the need for FERC to focus significant resources on the identification and elimination of market power in electricity markets and the need to encourage the development of distributed generation and more effective demand - side response mechanisms , partly in response to market power concerns. This is a huge issue in  getting wholesale electricity markets to work effectively, i.e; to create discernable  consumer welfare benefits.... and we ( Enron ) need to talk about this this issue and concern and talk about it frequently and w/ the same passion we talk about the need for open markets. Linda Robertson 04/04/2001 12:09 PM 
Steve, per our conversation yesterday in Houston, what do you think of these TPs?  To be used by both Ken and Jeff in conversations and meetings with the Bush Administration. - Skilling Talking Points.doc 
Rick:  The California/dereg story and a sidebar are attached for your review.  Please circulate to all on your team who need to review them. We need to receive all comments by Monday, April 9.  I am out on Monday, so please send comments/approval to Sarah Palmer. Thanks for the opportunity to do this story.  I think it will be of great interest to employees. Mary 
This all looks fine. Thanks. Paul Kaufman@ECT 04/05/2001 05:31 PM 
Here's what we (Sue L. and me) want to give to Scott Celey (aid to Gov. Hull from Arizona).  She's interested in putting together a letter warning about balkanization for signature by the other Republican governors. 
I believe it's out- don't have a final. 
Comments? 
I found her. 
Blackouts at baseball games are bad- play ceases and people get angry...in the dark. 
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The CIS Conferencec provides utility management personnel unequaled insight and current information on Customer Relationship Management (CRM), E-Commerce, Technologies and Marketing. Fifty-four sessions conducted by utility industry representatives will focus on issues facing the industry. Over 100 companies will exhibit the latest technologies and services. Former President George Bush is our Honored Keynote Speaker www.cisconference.org e-ProCom Europe for Utilities and Energy e-Business Conference & Exhibition - May 22-23, 2001, Amsterdam, The Netherlands e-Commerce/e-Business/Integrating the Digital Utility/ Pan-European attendance from the major utilities and energy players can be found at the e-ProCom Europe: for Utilities & Energy e-Business. Call 31-346-590901 or email jhh@synergy-events.com  or visit our web site at: www.e-procomseries.com. [IMAGE] In an exclusive SCIENTECH PowerHitters interview, Jeff Sterba, CEO of Public Utility of New Mexico (PNM), shares some keys that have helped the small company find success in the wholesale power market. He also looks at issues affecting deregulation both in New Mexico and across the country.  Read the questions Sterba was asked at: www.scientech.com [IMAGE] [IMAGE] April 20, 2001 Deal for SCE's Transmission Assets Appears Dead on Arrival by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis [News item from Reuters] California Gov. Gray Davis' billion dollar plan to save utility Southern California Edison (SCE) from bankruptcy is in deep trouble and could be rejected by legislators. Legislative sources said the governor was having so much trouble gathering support for his plan that he could not find anyone to sponsor a bill. One Assembly official called the SCE 
Can you review and comment back to me? Thanks. 
Jim and Rick: Please see the attached emails and comments from Vicky.  Please give me a call, appreciate your help. Dan O. Boyle Enron Global Finance Office:   713-853-1532 Mobile:  713-417-3532 
I would like someone from the regulatory group to bless this .  I would recommend Jim Steffes or Rick Shapiro. Dan Boyle@ENRON 04/26/2001 09:13 AM 
Paula: Attached is a draft of the proposed disclosure relating to California for the Credit Linked Note offering memorandum. While the concept of the disclosure was proposed by Salomon and Milbank, the enclosed draft has been fully reviewed and edited by Vicky Sharp, Rex Rogers, Ron Astin, Gareth Bahlmann, Tim De Spain and me.  Before returning the draft to Salomon, I wanted your group to review as well. Please let me know if you have any questions, we would like to get this back to Salomon by the end of the day if possible. Thanks Dan O. Boyle Enron Global Finance Office:   713-853-1532 Mobile:  713-417-3532 
FYI- Seabron, as most of you know, is a consultant for us... his thoughts on FERC price cap order. 
I agree- it's not clear to me whether Cal. squares off with the feds on the RTO issue. All in all , a bad order that will only worsen the situation, not improve things( I'm saying that w/o benefit of order which is'nt out yet. Any thoughts? ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 04/26/2001 02:14:35 PM 
Rick: Sorry I missed your call. I had just popped out for a coffee. I'll just wait until next week before proceeding, after I get some comments from you guys. I should pretty much be around all next week so you can catch me whenever. I suppose you have been following the FERC California decision pretty closely. How CA gets integrated into a new RTO appears to be the key question. I would be surprised if RTO West even wants them in, given the credit risk issues, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
YES 
Please add Shelley Corman in GPG  to distribution lists on all California issues related to crisis. Thanks. 
FYI- Also, please send Luiz best and most current version of demand - buydown proposal for California- it might be useful for Brazil. You might as well send latest  ""solutions"" document. Thanks. 
It may be of interest to you LM 
Motion 
Does Hap get it now? 
Agree re: Bev & Rob is going to call you. 
Crisis 
Here's the one pager. 
to the USA: Report Rick: Here's the ""draft"" Eurelectric report (never saw final, but don't think it's materially different.) Would be good if whoever is updating Jim Steffes slides from 29/3 could take a steer from the issues the report concentrates on, and either endorse/ explain them, or rebut/ disentangle them. Also we should bear in mind theme of Madrid conferenc is convergence of power and gas markets/ regulation, so gas market aspects for Western Area will be of partic. interest. Items to de-emphasise in very short slot available may be workings of PX and NOx credits trading. For potential lessons of relevance to Europe, I think Steve should concentrate on dangers in: decoupling of wholesale and retail market, attempted upfront guaranteed benefits to smaller consumers, and absence of adequate demand side, and generation investment, signals. Alfredo, Teun, Paul and Paul: As mentioned in staff meeting yesterday, would appreciate your one or two slides each of bullet points on lessons for/ reassurance of irrelevance to (as the case may be!) your markets by end this week. Steve is away, so Rick and I will take a look at pulling this together intitially. 
Sorry for the delay on getting this to you, Maureen. Katrina Burton ext. 5-4498 
138 Ginger Dernehl 06/07/2001 12:46 PM 
Okay golfers, a tournament of sorts will be played in Colorado.  I need to know the following: 1)  average score And, I need to know this ASAP.  I will have the tournament director help with putting the teams together. Thanks for all your help! gngr 713-853-7751 
Howdy Golfers, I need some information before you all play your ""par"" game of golf next week. 1) Will you be bringing your own golf clubs? 2) If I need to reserve clubs for you, please let me know if you are right or left handed. Thanks!!!!!! gngr 713-853-7751 
Looks good. 
Looks good & things are slowly returning to normal,,,should be ok by Monday. 
Here are some thoughts. 
What do you think? 
Agree. 
Feel free to proceed. Thanks. 
Have him get in touch directly with me for the moment...I agree that the=20 concerns Richard raised can be dealt with- I think Edward will see people w= ho=20 are actually quite committed and passionate about their work. 
Please communicate or distribute as you see fit. Thanks. 
FYI- this is not final....a hard line approach is still in play. 
YES 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
I Forwarded this one already 
YES 
California Crisis 
Was'nt there an earlier powerpoint? 
California Crisis HERE'S A DRAFT OF THE EXNET PRESENTATION.  I'LL KEEP LOOKING FOR THE FINAL VERSION. 
Thanks. 
Just cc them- it's easier. 
Attached please find the Regulatory Risk-Responsibility Matrix developed by Jim Steffes.   One of the first steps in building the Regulatory Risk process is to establish responsibility for the current assets owned/managed by Enron.    The matrix provides a listing of assets that Jim has pulled together, however, there my be more that you know about.  Please indicate the person(s) who will manage the Regulatory Risk with each of these assets and if there are additional assets not noted on the matrix, please inform me of them by Friday, February 18. Thanks and please don't hesitate to call with questions. 
Got invite to Gray's mtg. through Washington lobbyist  of ours who has connections w/ Gray.  Steve Kean is attending, 
Is Jeff Available? Susan J Mara 11/22/2000 03:30 AM 
Should one of us plan to go with him. I have plans to go out of town that day (1:30 flight), so I won't be able to make it. Richard Shapiro 11/21/2000 05:38 PM 
Got invite to Gray's mtg. through Washington lobbyist  of ours who has connections w/ Gray.  Steve Kean is attending, 
Don't know- Does anyone know? 
Good- Please coordinate w/ Maureen. Thanks. 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
thanks 
I would say we engage on this and other issues in California  in a more=20 assertive manner- message is fine. Laying low and  working backchannels is= =20 working great so far??? NOT 
I think you're missing a ""solve"" in last sentence. 
(PST) 
A missing word is a little like a lime green shirt- hard to miss. 
FYI 
thanks 
Yes. 
But, on second thought, check w/   individual that gave the presentation- don't remember his name. 
Not a surprise. 
Jim- I do have faith. BREAKING NEWS! > >  GOD OVERRULES SUPREME COURT VERDICT > Bush to be smitten later today > > (Vatican) In a stunning development this morning, God invoked the ""one > nation, > under God"" clause of the Pledge of Allegiance to overrule Tuesday night's > Supreme Court decision that handed the White House to George Bush. >  ""I'm not sure where the Supreme Court gets off,"" God said this morning on a > rare Today Show appearance, ""but I'm sure as hell not going to lie back and > let > Bush get away with this nonsense."" ""I've watched analysts argue for weeks > now > that the exact vote count in Florida 'will never be known.' Well, I'm God > and I > DO know exactly who voted for whom. Let's cut to the chase: Gore won Florida > by 
Please call to discuss. Thanks. 
Rick:  it was great to catch up with you the other day in NY.  It seems like it was a very long time ago that we worked together on the PECO deal, doesn't it? I look forward to doing the panel with you at the Utility M&A Symposium in NY on Monday, January 29, 2001.  Our panel is set for around 4:00 that afternoon.  I'll get off a brochure to you, but the panel will discuss price volatility and what strategies there may be for dealing with it.  I thought it would be great if you could address the California situation and your thoughts on why it occurred and what the causes are and perhaps what remedial 
Check out WSJ- Page A2. Also,Bill Bradford in Rick buy's group is person most  proficient on credit issues relative to the three calif. utilities. I will also get back to you this afternoon........The CPUC is scheduled to issue orders today at 12:00 CST that may dramatically affect credit ratings of the 3 utilities. Mark Schroeder@ECT 12/21/2000 08:13 AM 
Rick/Jeff - I just spoke with John Sherriff and mentioned to him how on top of California you guys were.  As you may be aware, we are making markets in the credit of many utilities and telcomm companies, via EnronCredit.com. Brian Seyfried is the commercial leader for this business.  John has asked me to ask you, if you become aware of significant developments, in the public sector (not privileged/insider information), bearing on creditworthiness/ability to pay by California utilities, would you please keep us informed, as we will have a keen interest in these developments? Please forward to this to any others on your team(s) you think appropriate. thanks   mcs 
27th/28ths 
Looks good w/ comments from Harry and Sue. Thanks! 
Can you do this? 
Rick:  it was great to catch up with you the other day in NY.  It seems like it was a very long time ago that we worked together on the PECO deal, doesn't it? I look forward to doing the panel with you at the Utility M&A Symposium in NY on Monday, January 29, 2001.  Our panel is set for around 4:00 that afternoon.  I'll get off a brochure to you, but the panel will discuss price volatility and what strategies there may be for dealing with it.  I thought it would be great if you could address the California situation and your thoughts on why it occurred and what the causes are and perhaps what remedial 
Thanks. 
http://www.usatoday.com/news/comment/debate.htm   01/03/01- Updated 02:37 AM ET       ? Prices spike as Calif. bungles deregulation=20 When Californians bought into the idea of deregulated electricity in = 1996,=20 they did so on the promise they'd get reliable power at cheap prices.=20 Instead, they're facing power shortages and whopping bills. The state's public utilities commission is scheduled to decide Thursd= ay=20 whether to let two big utilities raise rates by up to 30%, ending a price= =20 freeze that was supposed to last until 2002. Financially strapped utilities= ,=20 meanwhile, are threatening blackouts.=20 With electricity deregulation underway in 23 other states, households= =20 nationwide should be wondering whether they'll be next to face=20 California-style chaos. It is a red flag that electricity deregulation, whi= ch=20 continues to hold promise for lower rates, must be approached cautiously an= d=20 gradually. California made a series of remarkably large blunders, many encourage= d by=20 utilities, that set the state on a dangerous path to deregulation without t= he=20 competition needed to hold down prices. Unless the state corrects those=20 errors, matters will get worse when full deregulation comes in two years.= =20 Much of the state could be served by power monopolies free to hike prices.= =20 The good news is that other deregulating states have planned better, = though=20 the process in those states is less advanced than in California. Among California's failings:=20 Utilities were barred from raising rates to consumers but had to cope= with=20 market prices from power plants. When deregulation began, the utilities=20 heartily backed the arrangement, because the frozen prices were far higher= =20 than the market prices they paid. Now, with a national energy shortage=20 pushing prices higher, they're worried about bankruptcy, threatening=20 blackouts and pleading for relief. Some seek re-regulation to protect=20 themselves from their own ineptitude. The state failed to bring enough new supply online before deregulatin= g. No=20 major plants were built in the previous decade, contributing to a supply=20 crunch in a state where electricity demand has been growing 4%-6% per year.= =20 By contrast, Texas, which is rolling out its deregulation more slowly, has= =20 since 1996 built 23 new plants that have added 15% more power-generation. California tried to manipulate prices and blew it. The state required= =20 utilities to buy all of their power from a ""power exchange"" in short-term= =20 blocks. This prevented utilities from entering long-term contracts or=20 adopting hedging strategies that could keep prices stable. After prices=20 spiked, the government worsened the situation by trying to cap prices=20 utilities could pay for power. Not surprisingly, power suppliers then sold= =20 their electricity to other states without price caps, where they could get = a=20 better return. Result: power shortages rectified only by an emergency feder= al=20 order that some out-of-state plants in the West sell California electricity= .=20 Price controls were lifted.=20 Other states have avoided this problem. New York, for instance, encou= raged=20 its utilities to enter into ""transition contracts"" under which plants have = an=20 obligation to sell them power. Similarly, Texas has long-term contracts,=20 under which the utilities buy power for long periods at set prices, allowin= g=20 them to hedge against short-term changes in price. The price of all this bungling will be huge for Californians, but hou= seholds=20 outside California may pay as well. The Western plants that the federal=20 government has forced to supply California's thirst could in time have=20 difficulty supplying their traditional customers, driving up their prices. = In=20 the extreme, the financial instability of California utilities Pacific Gas= =20 and Electric and Southern California Edison could roil markets and add to= =20 recession pressures. At a minimum, most Californians will soon face significant financial = pain =01*=20 unwarranted on their part =01* to pay for the botched deregulation either= =20 through taxes or higher rates. If this bailout isn't accompanied by new=20 rules, the 2002 ending of price caps may bring the worst of all worlds:=20 monopoly markets without price controls. Long term, the best hope for controlling prices is competition, but= =20 California has yet to come up with a convincing plan to make sure that=20 exists. In fact, in the San Diego area, where controls were briefly lifted= =20 without significant new competition, prices more than doubled.=20 Some advocacy groups and politicians are calling for more radical sol= utions,=20 such as a state buyout of the utilities or simple refusal to pay the=20 utilities on the grounds they must be hiding money somewhere. The utilities= ,=20 having tasted their own medicine, now say they'd support re-regulation. But none of these fixes would save California's consumers from the di= m-bulb=20 management that has put the state at risk of power outages and financial=20 catastrophe. California Gov. Gray Davis' said recently that ""if deregulation fails= in=20 California, it is dead in America."" To the contrary, as California does its= =20 repair work, the rest of the county will be taking notes on how not to=20 deregulate as carelessly as California did.    ?  ? ? ? ?   01/03/01- Updated 02:38 AM ET       ? Learn from California mistake=20 By Harvey Rosenfield and Douglas Heller=20 The myth of electricity deregulation has met reality in California, a= nd the=20 result is a $40 billion debacle. Awash in energy-industry campaign contributions, California lawmakers= freed=20 the state's utility companies of price controls in 1996. Consumers were=20 ordered to pay off the utilities' debts, after which competition was suppos= ed=20 to kick in, guaranteeing a 20% rate cut by 2002.=20 Deregulation proved a bonanza for the utilities. They sold some of th= eir=20 power plants and collected $19 billion in ratepayer subsidies. They used th= e=20 money to purchase plants in other countries, reward their executives with= =20 huge pay raises, buy back stock and increase dividends. Profits reached=20 record levels this year. Envious, the handful of unregulated companies that control nearly hal= f of the=20 state's electricity generation decided to cash in, too. This cartel began t= o=20 withhold power, causing shortages that boosted the wholesale price of=20 electricity that utility companies must buy by 3,900%. But, ironically,=20 because of the way they wrote the deregulation law, the utilities are=20 forbidden to pass the higher costs on to most consumers until 2002.=20 Now the companies want to rewrite the law. When public officials resi= sted the=20 utilities' demands for immediate rate hikes, the utilities threatened=20 blackouts and bankruptcy. When that economic extortion failed, Wall Street= =20 issued an ultimatum: Order a 20% rate hike within 48 hours, as a first=20 installment of an $11 billion ratepayer bailout, or Wall Street would itsel= f=20 force the utilities into bankruptcy.=20 California has learned the hard way that electricity is too vital to = be left=20 in the hands of unregulated corporations whose sole interest is maximizing= =20 profits. Facing a ratepayer revolt, state officials have re-imposed=20 regulation. To make electricity reliable and affordable once more, they are= =20 considering establishing a non-profit, publicly owned power system for the= =20 state. But, in the meantime, the deregulation disaster could end up costing= =20 each Californian $12,500. Meanwhile, elsewhere in the nation, corporate-funded ideologues and a= cademics=20 continue to promote electricity deregulation, much as they promoted looseni= ng=20 controls on savings and loans in the 1980s.=20 Whenever you hear the word ""deregulation,"" hold onto your wallets: So= me=20 industry is about to pick your pocket. Harvey Rosenfield and Douglas Heller are consumer advocates with the= =20 Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights. Its Web site:=20 www.consumerwatchdog.org. 
Thus Far) 
Who is the interim appointee? 
John- If this is acceptable to you,Jeff Dasovich would substitute for me- He'll be great. He can be reached at 425-782-7822. Thanks. 
Thoughts? 
Rick / Steve - Please check this out and provide some comments. It currently does not contain a ""market price"".  That is being assembled now. Please also let me know when you would like to get this to the CA Governor's office. Thank you - Dan 
I say we launch on ISO governance soon, preferably through EPSA, but alone if necessary. We need to force FERC's hand with a well-thought out pleading on why they have to enforce order on independent governance and why a politicized CAL ISO is a recipe for disaster. Are we waiting on anything I'm not aware of? 
They(Lynch and  Cooke ) really believe 5.5 - 6.0 cents. Amazing. 
Yes to question. 
Go 
Please review and get back to John. Thanks. 
Rick, At Jose Bestard's request, Keith Miceli has developed the attached Q&As on the California situation for use by government and regulatory affairs professionals in their interactions with officials in South America.  The brief would also be distributed to the South America management team.  Could you or a member of your staff review this document and let me know whether you are comfortable with it?  Any changes or comments would be appreciated. John 
Can we discuss? For future purposes only , we need to change our message a bit on power pools- the problem is not the existence of a pool through which all transactions clear in real-time( we like and want that),....rather, the problem in California was exposing consumers and the utilities nakedly to the volatility of the spot market by effectively  prohibiting hedging  contracts. This is an important distinction and one we need to be clear on so we don't trip over our advocacy and the desires of our commercial counterparts. Thanks., Karen Denne 02/14/2001 02:25 PM 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Agree- Steve & Jeff- can you take the lead? 
lime 
Will now be coming in laterTuesday night-- You and Jeff might want to attend meeting at 10 w/ Olivia Morgan and Karen Skelton-- would have to take 3: 35 
Close to Davis and me. - Call  this afternoon and I'll fill in. 
Sounds like a cake walk for someone as talented as you. 
We need to all talk Tuesday morning ASAP - I am frankly sick and  tired of self-delusion in the face of a stark and bleak reality in Sacramento- As a Democrat, it is clear to me that the Democrats from Gray on down are a lost cause( their response, from a public policy perspective, is shameful in its shortsidedness and contemptible in its lack of thoughtfulness and intellect- the Democrat's response in Cal. makes me ashamed to call myself a Democrat) and the Republicans too small a minority in Ca. to make a difference- From my vantage point ,nothing good and some( potentially much) bad came out of the three bills passed. We have a huge uphill battle coming in the next session and the prospects of further thoughtless retrenchment on the part of the Governor and legislature very high- to begin the preperation for that struggle,  we first have to be honest with ourselves and end any petty bickering internally on intrepretations of brutally clear  events and oucomes, events and outcomes which are the equivalent of getting hit upside the head by a 2 by  4, i.e; that usually does'nt require intrepretation or discussion as to whether it hurt... We end the self-delusion starting on Tuesday. Jeff- please arrange the call - all are invited . Sandra McCubbin 09/02/2000 01:44 PM 
since the siting legislation created only a program that is voluntary and not in place of the existing laws, and we have a committment from the legislature, the CEC and the govenor's office to take another shot in January, as they know that this legislation is flawed, too many conflicting interests trying to solve a complex problem in too short a time, I feel this is too harsh...we have already started the process of creating new legislation, that will be as close to a consensus as possible for next session..this legislation did not hurt us, and, some companies feel that they can use the processes.  We have to keep in mind that with the knowledge that there will be major reorganization legislation next year, we don't want to offend the friends that we have in Sacramento, particularly the Republicans who were the ones who insisted on an expedited siting bill 
purchase excess power from CDWR's long-term contracts 
October 4th 
With Aleck Dadson's recent departure, I am pleased to announce that Rob Hemstock will immediately assume a leadership role on behalf of Government Affairs for Enron Canada.  Rob will be working very closely in this capacity with Rob Milnthorp as well as myself and others.  Please join me in congratulating Rob on his new responsibilities. 
Suspend DA 
The events of September 11th are still very much with us and will continue to be for some time, perhaps for as long as we live. For those who have not heard me say this regarding air travel,individuals should avail themselves of the travel services the company is offering in the way of guidance for those that are traveling and only travel by air for essential matters( until further notice). In addition, anyone who is currently  uncomfortable with the notion of air travel  need not do so...we will work around this for as long as the need exists. The company has also provided information on the availability of counseling services should anyone have the need- please contact HR or the Benefits Group for further information. A final couple of notes: If there is a silver lining in the events of September 11th, it is the kindness, generosity, and humanity it brings out in the rest of us...I have seen this play out in untold ways in our ""group"",both in London and at home,  over the last nine days , including( to a person) the absence of any hint of bias being shown towards the individual in our group who is an ""Arab American"" and a Muslim, Amr Ibrahim. My high regard and respect for the Government Affairs group and for each individual  has been validated many times over  during the past nine days. Thank you very much.--- Rick Shapiro 
I know that , as a result of yesterday's national tragedy, there are many = of you  stranded throughout the U.S....Please check with the Enron websites= and Travel Agency in the Park( open 24 hours) for information on how best = to get home- Please  feel free to utilize all reasonable and safe ways to r= eturn home...you will be reimbursed for such efforts. Please also feel free= to extend your stays as necessary until you are comfortable returning home= . There isn't much more to say about yesterday's events that hasn't already= been said - they are tragic beyond an imaginable level...but, the fact tha= t  each of you and your family's are safe is very important to me and many = others. This event will be with us for a long time to come, but a sense of = normalcy will, in time, return to our business and what we do in Government= Affairs..but,in the meantime,  stay safe, enjoy your families, and get hom= e when you can if you are away. Feel free to call me at 281-831-3749 if the= 
Effective today, I am designating Janel Guerrero as the primary point person for Enron's comprehensive RTO efforts.  In this capacity, she will be coordinating all of the advocacy functions outside of the FERC mediation process. This effort is absolutely of the highest priority for the company. Please cooperate with Janel to the fullest and coordinate with her on all of your strategic efforts and communications that are related to the RTO effort. Thanks very much. Additional details regarding our RTO campaign are attached.  Please feel free to call either Janel or myself with any questions you may have. 
I am pleased to announce that effective July 1st the following individuals have been promoted from Director to Senior Director. Dan Allegretti - Dan has been a leader on both retail and wholesale electricity issues in New England for the past several years with Enron, resulting in Dan currently serving as Chair of the New England Power Pool Participants Committee.  Dan, more importantly, has been very active, both in the past and during the course of this year, in ensuring that transactional opportunities in the New England region are fully exploited by both Enron Wholesale Services and Enron Energy Services.  Dan's participation in the United Illuminating deal has been mentioned many times, but Dan has also played a critical role in working with Enron Energy Services this year in helping to develop a national business plan for creating value through the delivery of retail services in partnership with municipal and privately owned utilities. Robert Hemstock - Rob's participation in the development of Alberta's competitive electricity market and the ensuing PPA project, that has produced considerable value for Enron and Enron Canada has been quite notable.  Rob has been a leader, not only with policy makers, but also with his commercial counterparts in ensuring that the PPA transaction was brought to fruition last year.  Rob has also played a critical role in preserving the value embedded in that deal throughout the course of this year.  Rob's knowledge of both wholesale and retail issues in both the natural gas and electricity industries in Western Canada is unparalleled. Sue Mara - Sue is a warrior.  Sue has fought endlessly and courageously during her years with Enron in trying to ensure, against all odds, that retail and wholesale electricity markets work as effectively as possible in California while also protecting Enron's interests in that very challenging state.  Sue is a passionate believer in the efficacy of markets, and fights tirelessly for both the issues as well as the well-being of the company in California. Please join me in congratulating each of these individuals on their significant accomplishments. 
Thanks. 
The Government Affairs group is involved in diverse and complex activities.  Tracking and quantifying these activities is important for several obvious reasons - to keep upper management apprised of our activities; to illustrate the value added and risk managed by our group; and to keep each other properly  informed so that we can better coordinate our efforts. Currently, these activities take place on an ad-hoc manual basis, which is time-consuming and inefficient.  We have a tool already in place to track our activities - the Project Tracking database in Lotus Notes.  Currently this application is used primarily for RCR's, but beginning November 1, 2001, the Government Affairs group will use this application to track all projects and efforts  - replacing the need for manual updated spreadsheets and activity quantification ""fire-drills"".  The Projects have several features to allow capture of sub-sets of information, including Updates, Risk, Origination and Valuation. **  Please note that this will become the only way that we'll gather this information.  In other words, if you don't enter your data into Project Tracking, we won't know what you're doing! **( all other reports will be eliminated) The current Lotus Notes application will be discontinued as of October 31,2001 and will be converted to a web-based product.  You'll find the web-based version as easy or even easier to use than Lotus Notes.  Additionally, conversion to a new database structure will allow for more versatile report extraction. 
I know that , as a result of yesterday's national tragedy, there are many = of you  stranded throughout the U.S....Please check with the Enron websites= and Travel Agency in the Park( open 24 hours) for information on how best = to get home- Please  feel free to utilize all reasonable and safe ways to r= eturn home...you will be reimbursed for such efforts. Please also feel free= to extend your stays as necessary until you are comfortable returning home= . There isn't much more to say about yesterday's events that hasn't already= been said - they are tragic beyond an imaginable level...but, the fact tha= t  each of you and your family's are safe is very important to me and many = others. This event will be with us for a long time to come, but a sense of = normalcy will, in time, return to our business and what we do in Government= Affairs..but,in the meantime,  stay safe, enjoy your families, and get hom= e when you can if you are away. Feel free to call me at 281-831-3749 if the= 
Coast (IMPORTANT) 
As the merger between Dynegy & Enron goes through, any calls received requesting documentation or information regarding the merger should be relayed to me. I will be the point of contact for all Dynegy/Enron information requests. 
With the announcement of Enron's acquisition by Dynegy behind us, and with = the initial severance process completed, it seemed an appropriate time to e= ffect some organizational changes so that we as a group are better prepared= to meet the challenges of the future.  Before I turn to the organizational= changes, I would like to say a few words about those who will be leaving t= he company as a result of the initial severance (you'll know who they are b= y their absence on the organizational chart): Leading and being a part of t= his group has been a privilege?I am thankful for every day that I have had = that responsibility and thankful for however long I continue to have the re= sponsibility.  This sense of privilege and thankfulness is primarily driven= by having had the opportunity to get to know and care about such a dedicat= ed group of professionals and support staff and who, to a person, are also = very decent and good people.  To say good-bye to some of our colleagues is = not easy.  I want to, on behalf of all of us, thank them for their hard wor= k, their integrity, their decency, and the good times and laughter that we = shared.  I trust that many of us will find ways to sustain friendships that= have been and will continue to be very special.  Thanks to each of you who= are leaving for all you have done. As to the organizational structure, it has become increasingly apparent to = me that the existing organization, with a mix of groups organized along fun= ctional and regional lines (particularly within the U.S.), has impeded our = ability to get things done in the most efficient fashion at times.  The nee= d to rationalize the organizational structure, in order to consolidate all = U.S. energy functions, is a strong need from my perspective.  As a result, = Jim Steffes will lead the U.S. Energy group along with Sue Nord, who will j= ointly report to Jim and myself.  Sue will assist Jim in the leadership of = the group and take on project management responsibilities as warranted to h= elp Jim shoulder a significant burden.  Also reporting to Jim will be a lea= dership group for U.S. Energy that will be as follows:  Wholesale Electrici= ty will be led by Christi Nicolay; Retail Electricity and Natural Gas will = be led by Harry Kingerski; Wholesale Gas will be led by Leslie Lawner.   La= st, but not least, Jeff Dasovich and Sue Mara, who will continue to focus o= n California energy issues, will report to Jim. (Sue Mara will also be part= of the Wholesale electricity team). Steve Montovano, who will continue to report to me, will lead a commercial = development effort along with Dan Allegretti. With the elimination of the regional groups, I also recognize that there is= a need to continue to focus on how we as a group address our political/leg= islative needs across the U.S.  Paul Kaufman will lead a small group that w= ill address that need and that will focus on state political support.  Paul= will also take the lead for Government Affairs in support of corporate dev= elopment efforts across the U.S. Much of the rest of the group remains the same.  Linda Robertson will conti= nue to lead the Washington group with Sarah Novosel, who reports to Linda, = taking the lead role in our coordination of activities at FERC.  Amr Ibrahi= m will continue to lead the support of the Global Assets group and also con= tinue to manage the Risk Analytics function.  Maggy Huson will take over su= pport of the non-energy business units, which are as follows: Global Market= s, Industrial Markets, Networks, and Broadband.  Rob Hemstock will continue= to lead the support of Enron Canada.  Paul Dawson, who heads up government= affairs for Europe; Sergio Assad, who heads up government affairs for Sout= h America; and Mike Grimes and Mark Crowther, who head up our Asian efforts= , will continue to jointly report to the business units and myself. I am also forming a North American leadership group for Government Affairs = to provide policy guidance for the larger group and the company.  That Comm= ittee will consist of Rob Hemstock, Maggy Huson, Amr Ibrahim, Paul Kaufman,= Harry Kingerski, Leslie Lawner, Steve Montovano, Christi Nicolay, Sue Nord= , Sarah Novosel, Linda Robertson, Jim Steffes and myself.  We will also con= tinue to have an RCR Committee that will consist of Maggy Huson, Harry King= erski, Sue Nord, Linda Robertson, Jim Steffes & myself.  Finally, I am form= ing a Dynegy/Enron regulatory approvals working group that will consist of = Jose Bestard, Paul Dawson, Paul Kaufman, Sue Nord, Sarah Novosel and myself= . No organizational structure or set of organizational changes is either perf= ect or permanent.  I believe these changes will make us better and more pre= pared for the future.  However, we must be prepared to further adjust as th= e future unfolds for the company. One final note: I am deeply sorry that each of you has had to live through = this uncertain and troubled period for the company.  We are all saddened by= the recognition that we are in the midst of changes that will leave our gr= oup fundamentally altered, but we must resolve to do our best for each othe= r and ourselves during this period of change to ensure that what emerges, f= or those of us who do remain a part of the new Dynegy, reflects the excelle= nce and integrity that has characterized our group.  Personally, I will do = all I can, for as long as I can, to steer the group through this to the ver= y best place possible.  Your continued dedication and support is very much = appreciated.  Hang in there and thanks. 
Please send out Notices of Termination by November 30, 2001 for all retainer (fixed payments) agreements (lobbying, legal, consulting, etc...)  We need to end all payments as of December 31, 2001.  Thank you very much. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
The events of September 11th are still very much with us and will continue to be for some time, perhaps for as long as we live. For those who have not heard me say this regarding air travel,individuals should avail themselves of the travel services the company is offering in the way of guidance for those that are traveling and only travel by air for essential matters( until further notice). In addition, anyone who is currently  uncomfortable with the notion of air travel  need not do so...we will work around this for as long as the need exists. The company has also provided information on the availability of counseling services should anyone have the need- please contact HR or the Benefits Group for further information. A final couple of notes: If there is a silver lining in the events of September 11th, it is the kindness, generosity, and humanity it brings out in the rest of us...I have seen this play out in untold ways in our ""group"",both in London and at home,  over the last nine days , including( to a person) the absence of any hint of bias being shown towards the individual in our group who is an ""Arab American"" and a Muslim, Amr Ibrahim. My high regard and respect for the Government Affairs group and for each individual  has been validated many times over  during the past nine days. Thank you very much.--- Rick Shapiro 
Suspend DA 
With Aleck Dadson's recent departure, I am pleased to announce that Rob Hemstock will immediately assume a leadership role on behalf of Government Affairs for Enron Canada.  Rob will be working very closely in this capacity with Rob Milnthorp as well as myself and others.  Please join me in congratulating Rob on his new responsibilities. 
October 4th 
As you know, the Commission last week issued several important notices and papers regarding various policy initiatives that the Commission plans to address over the next few months.  These issues are extremely important to Enron and we have been urging FERC to address and resolve (most) of these issues for many years.  There is now a Commission in charge that looks like it is ready to act, and we need to be ready to respond. In an effort to coordinate our efforts, we have developed coverage teams to respond to these FERC initiatives.  The Washington advocacy group will also work closely with all of these teams.  If someone is interested in a particular issue and was not included on that team, please feel free to call the Project Lead to have your name added to the team.  All assistance is welcome.  As you will see on the attached chart, many of the deadlines for responding to these initiatives are within the next few weeks, so the teams need to mobilize and establish a game plan for our responses very quickly. On the attached chart, we have listed in the left column each of the FERC initiatives that will be starting or are currently underway.  A ""Project Lead"" has been named for each initiative.  The Project Lead will be responsible for developing and initiating a game plan for how Enron will respond in the proceeding.  The Team Lead will be contacting each of you within the next couple of days to set up processes and procedures for moving forward.  The team will be responsible for the initial determination of what issues should be addressed, what is the best way for Enron to respond to them, and producing draft comments.  Once draft comments are prepared, the comments will be circulated to a much wider group of Government Affairs and commercial people to ensure that the team has captured all of Enron's important issues. There is a column of ""Inside Counsel"" and ""Outside Services.""  In some areas, we plan to use outside counsel or consultants and in others we do not.  Where we do not list outside counsel, we will rely on our inside counsel to draft the comments (with significant input from the team members).  Please remember, however, that even if outside services are listed, the RCR process must still be followed.  If applicable, Project Leads should submit the necessary RCR request as soon as possible. The following is a brief description of each proceeding and the Project Lead named for each proceeding: RTO Meetings and Comments to NOPR:  Sarah Novosel and Christi Nicolay will be the Project Leads in this proceeding.  The RTO meetings will be held in Washington from October 15-19, and we hope to have an executive from Enron make a presentation on one of the panels.  Comments will be submitted to FERC regarding the appropriate market design for RTOs.  This team will also be responsible for these comments. Standards of Conduct NOPR:  Lisa Yoho will be the Project Lead.  Comments are due in approximately 45 days.  Several issues are raised in this proceeding, including a proposal to apply the standards of conduct to a utility's marketing affiliate buying and selling power to serve native load.  This is a significant action for FERC and we will strongly encourage the Commission to adopt this bold proposal. ICAP Inquiry:  Christi Nicolay will be the Project Lead.  Chairman Wood has indicated that he is not very familiar with capacity and reserve requirements, whether they are needed, and what impact such requirements have on the market.  Enron has been a strong opponent of ICAP for many years, and we plan to show FERC that ICAP requirements are not needed.  We will submit expert testimony on this issue. California Audit and Westwide Price Cap Mitigation:  Alan Comnes will be the Project Lead.  Commissioner Brownell is leading a FERC audit of the California ISO.  Although we do not have details of what the audit is intended to cover or how expansive it will be, we need to carefully monitor this proceeding and have input into the audit process where possible.  Furthermore, a request for rehearing is pending before the Commission regarding the current price cap mitigation measures.  The Commission implemented these caps in an effort to limit price spikes in California.  California's summer peaking season is over, but the Pacific Northwest's winter peaking season will be starting soon, and the mitigation measures currently in effect could discourage power sellers from selling power to the Northwest, where it will be needed this winter.  This team will be responsible for both of these proceedings. Transmission Constraint and Energy Infrastructure Issues:  Steve Walton is the Project Lead.  FERC staff is studying two significant transmission constraints - California's Path 15 and the Central East Interface in New York  -- and plans to have the study completed later this year.  The Commission plans to forward the study to DOE.  The Commission stated that this is a high priority for it.  In a relating proceeding, the Commission has stated that it will hold four open meetings in different regions of the country to identify energy infrastructure issues.  The team will also oversee the progress in these proceedings. Revised Public Utility Filing Requirements:  Susan Lindberg is the Project Lead.  The Commission has issued a NOPR proposing to require market participants to provide more information than is currently required, including at least seven additional data points per transaction.  This will have a significant administrative burden on Enron and could require the disclosure of commercially sensitive information.  Comments are due on October 5. California Refund Proceeding:  Ray Alvarez is the Project Lead.  The Commission has ordered power sellers to pay refunds for sales made to the California ISO from October 2, 2000 through June 20, 2001, and has established a hearing proceeding to resolve issues of material fact. Pacific Northwest Refund Proceeding:  Bob Frank is the Project Lead.  The Judge in this proceeding issued an initial decision recently finding that refunds are not warranted in the Pacific Northwest.  Briefs will be filed in response to the decision, and the Commission will review the Judge's order. Midwest/Alliance RTO Proceeding:  Mike Roan is the Project Lead.  Various filings are pending before the Commission regarding establishment of two RTOs in the Midwest - the Alliance RTO and the Midwest RTO.  Enron is advocating, consistent with the Commission's recent pronouncements, one single RTO in the Midwest.  The Commission is expected to act on these filings shortly.  Proceedings may be ordered. Northeast RTO Proceeding:  Sarah Novosel is the Project Lead.  Mediation to create a single Northeast RTO has concluded and the Judge's report is pending before the Commission.  A Commission order is expected on or before October 31.  Additional proceedings may be ordered. Southeast RTO Proceeding:  Christi Nicolay is the Project Lead.  Mediation to create a single Southeast RTO has concluded and the Judge's report is pending before the Commission.  A Commission order is expected on or before October 31.  Additional proceedings may be ordered. 
Message Points on Current Status of Company A.	Our core businesses are strong, performing well and customers continue to demonstrate their confidence in us. B.	EnronOnline experienced above average levels for number of transactions Wednesday (10/24/01), Enron recorded more than 8000 transactions with 1399 external users for a gross notional value of approximately $4 billion We continue to be the market maker of choice in wholesale gas and power C.	Our gas and power numbers indicate that our customer base is not withdrawing, closing out positions, nor reducing transaction levels with us. Indeed, customers are transacting at higher levels as they prepare their portfolios for the upcoming winter and protect themselves from price volatility. Media Q & A What did you receive from the SEC? Enron received a letter and subsequent phone call requesting that we voluntarily provide information regarding certain related party transactions. When did you receive the request from the SEC? We received a fax on Wednesday afternoon, October 19, 2001, and a phone call on Thursday afternoon, October 20, 2001. What did you do about the request from the SEC when you received it? An informal inquiry is not a material event; however, because of the high visibility of Enron and the recent public spotlight on the transaction, we convened a meeting of our Board as soon as possible.  We recommended that we announce the SEC request; the Board agreed, and we made the release prior to the market opening on Monday, October 22, 2001. What are you going to do about the request? We are cooperating fully with the SEC and see the request as an opportunity to put this issue behind us. These message points will be constantly changing and we will update you as the changes occur. Also, attached below is the Enron link for the Press Room that contains ""Frequently Asked Questions"". 
Any information or discussions that arise that may relate to PGE (Portland General Electric), e.g., the sale, regulatory approvals, FERC and wholesale market related issues should be communicated to Paul Kaufman via phone or e:mail.  Paul can be reached at 503-464-7945 or Paul.Kaufman@enron.com. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
A few months ago, I sent a note to the North American Government Affairs group commemorating a bit of an end point in our efforts relative to California.  In that memo, I included a quote that went as follows ? ""What we do in life echoes through eternity"".  I think of these words often and believe them more than ever, particularly after the events, both external and internal to Enron, of the last few months.  I do not know for sure what the next few weeks or months will bring for any of us, but I do know that what we've done here at Enron in Government Affairs over the last several years, whether in Houston, Washington, London, Brussels, Sao Paulo, etc. was very good and will be remembered for the positive difference that we have all made in the industries in which we have worked and for each other.  We even had a good time doing it.  The good work we do will go on for many, if not, all of us . . . for some, here; for others, elsewhere. Regardless of what the future holds, we should all be quite proud of what we have accomplished here and how it has been accomplished.  My personal appreciation for all that you have done as well as at having had the opportunity to be part of a group that, unfortunately, will be inalterably impacted and changed over the next few weeks, is boundless.  Irrespective of where these changes may take any one of us, I will continue to do all I can to earn your trust and respect. On a more holiday-related note, for those in the U.S., who are working this week, please feel free to leave as early as possible on Wednesday in advance of Thanksgiving to spend time with your families or loved ones.  For those not celebrating the American Thanksgiving, you too should try and take some additional time for yourself and families over the next few days, work and business demands permitting. Thank you. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
I am not sure, that in any of the calls that we have had during the crisis = surrounding Enron, that I have been able to fully express the depth of my g= ratitude to each of you.  I am as grateful as one can be.  Like many of you= , I loved this place and feel an immense sense of loss at what is occurring= .  My heart also aches for the financial losses that so many have suffered,= not only in our group, but also throughout the company, particularly given= how much all of us have given to this place, some for many years.  I have = been searching for a way to capture what we've done here and was reading a = book the other day about Teddy Roosevelt, former President of the United St= ates, and saw a quote that I thought was appropriate to our group and circu= mstances?the quote is,=20 ""the credit belongs to the person who is actually in the arena?who strives = valiantly, who knows the great enthusiasms, the great devotions and spends = himself in worthy causes.  Who, at best, knows the triumph of high achievem= ent and who, at worst, if he fails, fails while daring greatly so that his = place shall never be with those cold and timid souls, who knew neither vict= 
Just cc them- it's easier. 
Thanks. 
California Crisis 
Was'nt there an earlier powerpoint? 
California Crisis HERE'S A DRAFT OF THE EXNET PRESENTATION.  I'LL KEEP LOOKING FOR THE FINAL VERSION. 
YES 
I Forwarded this one already 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
YES 
FYI- this is not final....a hard line approach is still in play. 
Please communicate or distribute as you see fit. Thanks. 
Have him get in touch directly with me for the moment...I agree that the=20 concerns Richard raised can be dealt with- I think Edward will see people w= ho=20 are actually quite committed and passionate about their work. 
Here are some thoughts. 
Feel free to proceed. Thanks. 
What do you think? 
Agree. 
Looks good & things are slowly returning to normal,,,should be ok by Monday. 
Got invite to Gray's mtg. through Washington lobbyist  of ours who has connections w/ Gray.  Steve Kean is attending, 
Is Jeff Available? Susan J Mara 11/22/2000 03:30 AM 
Should one of us plan to go with him. I have plans to go out of town that day (1:30 flight), so I won't be able to make it. Richard Shapiro 11/21/2000 05:38 PM 
Got invite to Gray's mtg. through Washington lobbyist  of ours who has connections w/ Gray.  Steve Kean is attending, 
Don't know- Does anyone know? 
Good- Please coordinate w/ Maureen. Thanks. 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
thanks 
I would say we engage on this and other issues in California  in a more=20 assertive manner- message is fine. Laying low and  working backchannels is= =20 working great so far??? NOT 
I think you're missing a ""solve"" in last sentence. 
(PST) 
A missing word is a little like a lime green shirt- hard to miss. 
FYI 
thanks 
Yes. 
But, on second thought, check w/   individual that gave the presentation- don't remember his name. 
Not a surprise. 
138 Ginger Dernehl 06/07/2001 12:46 PM 
Okay golfers, a tournament of sorts will be played in Colorado.  I need to know the following: 1)  average score And, I need to know this ASAP.  I will have the tournament director help with putting the teams together. Thanks for all your help! gngr 713-853-7751 
Howdy Golfers, I need some information before you all play your ""par"" game of golf next week. 1) Will you be bringing your own golf clubs? 2) If I need to reserve clubs for you, please let me know if you are right or left handed. Thanks!!!!!! gngr 713-853-7751 
Please add Shelley Corman in GPG  to distribution lists on all California issues related to crisis. Thanks. 
Crisis 
Here's the one pager. 
to the USA: Report Rick: Here's the ""draft"" Eurelectric report (never saw final, but don't think it's materially different.) Would be good if whoever is updating Jim Steffes slides from 29/3 could take a steer from the issues the report concentrates on, and either endorse/ explain them, or rebut/ disentangle them. Also we should bear in mind theme of Madrid conferenc is convergence of power and gas markets/ regulation, so gas market aspects for Western Area will be of partic. interest. Items to de-emphasise in very short slot available may be workings of PX and NOx credits trading. For potential lessons of relevance to Europe, I think Steve should concentrate on dangers in: decoupling of wholesale and retail market, attempted upfront guaranteed benefits to smaller consumers, and absence of adequate demand side, and generation investment, signals. Alfredo, Teun, Paul and Paul: As mentioned in staff meeting yesterday, would appreciate your one or two slides each of bullet points on lessons for/ reassurance of irrelevance to (as the case may be!) your markets by end this week. Steve is away, so Rick and I will take a look at pulling this together intitially. 
Sorry for the delay on getting this to you, Maureen. Katrina Burton ext. 5-4498 
Agree re: Bev & Rob is going to call you. 
Motion 
Does Hap get it now? 
FYI- Also, please send Luiz best and most current version of demand - buydown proposal for California- it might be useful for Brazil. You might as well send latest  ""solutions"" document. Thanks. 
It may be of interest to you LM 
YES 
FYI- Seabron, as most of you know, is a consultant for us... his thoughts on FERC price cap order. 
I agree- it's not clear to me whether Cal. squares off with the feds on the RTO issue. All in all , a bad order that will only worsen the situation, not improve things( I'm saying that w/o benefit of order which is'nt out yet. Any thoughts? ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 04/26/2001 02:14:35 PM 
Rick: Sorry I missed your call. I had just popped out for a coffee. I'll just wait until next week before proceeding, after I get some comments from you guys. I should pretty much be around all next week so you can catch me whenever. I suppose you have been following the FERC California decision pretty closely. How CA gets integrated into a new RTO appears to be the key question. I would be surprised if RTO West even wants them in, given the credit risk issues, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
Can you review and comment back to me? Thanks. 
Jim and Rick: Please see the attached emails and comments from Vicky.  Please give me a call, appreciate your help. Dan O. Boyle Enron Global Finance Office:   713-853-1532 Mobile:  713-417-3532 
I would like someone from the regulatory group to bless this .  I would recommend Jim Steffes or Rick Shapiro. Dan Boyle@ENRON 04/26/2001 09:13 AM 
Paula: Attached is a draft of the proposed disclosure relating to California for the Credit Linked Note offering memorandum. While the concept of the disclosure was proposed by Salomon and Milbank, the enclosed draft has been fully reviewed and edited by Vicky Sharp, Rex Rogers, Ron Astin, Gareth Bahlmann, Tim De Spain and me.  Before returning the draft to Salomon, I wanted your group to review as well. Please let me know if you have any questions, we would like to get this back to Salomon by the end of the day if possible. Thanks Dan O. Boyle Enron Global Finance Office:   713-853-1532 Mobile:  713-417-3532 
Today's IssueAlert Sponsors: [IMAGE] The CIS Conferencec provides utility management personnel unequaled insight and current information on Customer Relationship Management (CRM), E-Commerce, Technologies and Marketing. Fifty-four sessions conducted by utility industry representatives will focus on issues facing the industry. Over 100 companies will exhibit the latest technologies and services. Former President George Bush is our Honored Keynote Speaker www.cisconference.org e-ProCom Europe for Utilities and Energy e-Business Conference & Exhibition - May 22-23, 2001, Amsterdam, The Netherlands e-Commerce/e-Business/Integrating the Digital Utility/ Pan-European attendance from the major utilities and energy players can be found at the e-ProCom Europe: for Utilities & Energy e-Business. Call 31-346-590901 or email jhh@synergy-events.com  or visit our web site at: www.e-procomseries.com. [IMAGE] In an exclusive SCIENTECH PowerHitters interview, Jeff Sterba, CEO of Public Utility of New Mexico (PNM), shares some keys that have helped the small company find success in the wholesale power market. He also looks at issues affecting deregulation both in New Mexico and across the country.  Read the questions Sterba was asked at: www.scientech.com [IMAGE] [IMAGE] April 20, 2001 Deal for SCE's Transmission Assets Appears Dead on Arrival by Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis [News item from Reuters] California Gov. Gray Davis' billion dollar plan to save utility Southern California Edison (SCE) from bankruptcy is in deep trouble and could be rejected by legislators. Legislative sources said the governor was having so much trouble gathering support for his plan that he could not find anyone to sponsor a bill. One Assembly official called the SCE 
Blackouts at baseball games are bad- play ceases and people get angry...in the dark. 
I found her. 
Comments? 
I believe it's out- don't have a final. 
This all looks fine. Thanks. Paul Kaufman@ECT 04/05/2001 05:31 PM 
Here's what we (Sue L. and me) want to give to Scott Celey (aid to Gov. Hull from Arizona).  She's interested in putting together a letter warning about balkanization for signature by the other Republican governors. 
Rick:  The California/dereg story and a sidebar are attached for your review.  Please circulate to all on your team who need to review them. We need to receive all comments by Monday, April 9.  I am out on Monday, so please send comments/approval to Sarah Palmer. Thanks for the opportunity to do this story.  I think it will be of great interest to employees. Mary 
I think these are quite good...the missing piece, I would argue, that we need to include is a talking point on the need for FERC to focus significant resources on the identification and elimination of market power in electricity markets and the need to encourage the development of distributed generation and more effective demand - side response mechanisms , partly in response to market power concerns. This is a huge issue in  getting wholesale electricity markets to work effectively, i.e; to create discernable  consumer welfare benefits.... and we ( Enron ) need to talk about this this issue and concern and talk about it frequently and w/ the same passion we talk about the need for open markets. Linda Robertson 04/04/2001 12:09 PM 
Steve, per our conversation yesterday in Houston, what do you think of these TPs?  To be used by both Ken and Jeff in conversations and meetings with the Bush Administration. - Skilling Talking Points.doc 
> > Calif Gov To Make 'Important' Energy Announcement Thurs > LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--In a highly unusual move, California Gov. Gray > Davis Tuesday requested radio and television stations in the state to > clear five minutes of time Thursday evening so he can make an important > announcement regarding the state's energy crisis. > Davis is expected to deliver a speech at 6:05 p.m. PST and will likely > talk about the state's conservation efforts, a 4,000 megawatt shortfall > expected next month, the need to bring new generation online, recent rate > hikes ordered by the California Public Utilities Commission, and the > possibility for further rate increases this summer to keep the state's > three investor-owned utilities solvent, sources close to Davis told Dow > Jones Newswires. > The source said Davis is not expected to discuss a final agreement to buy > the power lines owned by PG&E Corp., unit Pacific Gas & Electric, Edison > International's unit, Southern California Edison, and Sempra Energy's > unit, San Diego Gas & Electric. > Davis' press secretary, Steve Maviglio, would not comment on Davis' > speech. > In a memo to the media, Davis' office said the governor will ""deliver an > important live address on energy from his office in Sacramento. During > this historic address to the people of California, the governor will speak > in detail about California's energy emergency and make an important 
London and the presentation were good- only changes were a few updates. Thanks for your help! 
$25 not applicable to those on vacation. Bet they love the lime shirt down there. 
I am going to be the Senior Regulatory Counsel at ISO New England starting on April 9, 2001.   My last day in the Portland area will be March 31, 2001.  I enjoyed working with you and wish you the best of everything.  My new address will be: Mary Hain Senior Regulatory Counsel ISO New England Inc. One Sullivan Road Holyoke, MA  01040-2841 (413) 535-4000 mhain@ISO-NE.com 
Please call the GAP lady- you're the right person. Thanks. 
Sounds like a cake walk for someone as talented as you. 
Close to Davis and me. - Call  this afternoon and I'll fill in. 
Will now be coming in laterTuesday night-- You and Jeff might want to attend meeting at 10 w/ Olivia Morgan and Karen Skelton-- would have to take 3: 35 
lime 
Agree- Steve & Jeff- can you take the lead? 
Can we discuss? For future purposes only , we need to change our message a bit on power pools- the problem is not the existence of a pool through which all transactions clear in real-time( we like and want that),....rather, the problem in California was exposing consumers and the utilities nakedly to the volatility of the spot market by effectively  prohibiting hedging  contracts. This is an important distinction and one we need to be clear on so we don't trip over our advocacy and the desires of our commercial counterparts. Thanks., Karen Denne 02/14/2001 02:25 PM 
Attached is the op-ed by Ken Lay we've submitted to the San Francisco Chronicle, at their request.  It will likely run this Sunday, Feb. 18. kd 
Please review and get back to John. Thanks. 
Rick, At Jose Bestard's request, Keith Miceli has developed the attached Q&As on the California situation for use by government and regulatory affairs professionals in their interactions with officials in South America.  The brief would also be distributed to the South America management team.  Could you or a member of your staff review this document and let me know whether you are comfortable with it?  Any changes or comments would be appreciated. John 
Go 
Yes to question. 
They(Lynch and  Cooke ) really believe 5.5 - 6.0 cents. Amazing. 
I say we launch on ISO governance soon, preferably through EPSA, but alone if necessary. We need to force FERC's hand with a well-thought out pleading on why they have to enforce order on independent governance and why a politicized CAL ISO is a recipe for disaster. Are we waiting on anything I'm not aware of? 
Thoughts? 
Rick / Steve - Please check this out and provide some comments. It currently does not contain a ""market price"".  That is being assembled now. Please also let me know when you would like to get this to the CA Governor's office. Thank you - Dan 
John- If this is acceptable to you,Jeff Dasovich would substitute for me- He'll be great. He can be reached at 425-782-7822. Thanks. 
Thus Far) 
Who is the interim appointee? 
http://www.usatoday.com/news/comment/debate.htm   01/03/01- Updated 02:37 AM ET       ? Prices spike as Calif. bungles deregulation=20 When Californians bought into the idea of deregulated electricity in = 1996,=20 they did so on the promise they'd get reliable power at cheap prices.=20 Instead, they're facing power shortages and whopping bills. The state's public utilities commission is scheduled to decide Thursd= ay=20 whether to let two big utilities raise rates by up to 30%, ending a price= =20 freeze that was supposed to last until 2002. Financially strapped utilities= ,=20 meanwhile, are threatening blackouts.=20 With electricity deregulation underway in 23 other states, households= =20 nationwide should be wondering whether they'll be next to face=20 California-style chaos. It is a red flag that electricity deregulation, whi= ch=20 continues to hold promise for lower rates, must be approached cautiously an= d=20 gradually. California made a series of remarkably large blunders, many encourage= d by=20 utilities, that set the state on a dangerous path to deregulation without t= he=20 competition needed to hold down prices. Unless the state corrects those=20 errors, matters will get worse when full deregulation comes in two years.= =20 Much of the state could be served by power monopolies free to hike prices.= =20 The good news is that other deregulating states have planned better, = though=20 the process in those states is less advanced than in California. Among California's failings:=20 Utilities were barred from raising rates to consumers but had to cope= with=20 market prices from power plants. When deregulation began, the utilities=20 heartily backed the arrangement, because the frozen prices were far higher= =20 than the market prices they paid. Now, with a national energy shortage=20 pushing prices higher, they're worried about bankruptcy, threatening=20 blackouts and pleading for relief. Some seek re-regulation to protect=20 themselves from their own ineptitude. The state failed to bring enough new supply online before deregulatin= g. No=20 major plants were built in the previous decade, contributing to a supply=20 crunch in a state where electricity demand has been growing 4%-6% per year.= =20 By contrast, Texas, which is rolling out its deregulation more slowly, has= =20 since 1996 built 23 new plants that have added 15% more power-generation. California tried to manipulate prices and blew it. The state required= =20 utilities to buy all of their power from a ""power exchange"" in short-term= =20 blocks. This prevented utilities from entering long-term contracts or=20 adopting hedging strategies that could keep prices stable. After prices=20 spiked, the government worsened the situation by trying to cap prices=20 utilities could pay for power. Not surprisingly, power suppliers then sold= =20 their electricity to other states without price caps, where they could get = a=20 better return. Result: power shortages rectified only by an emergency feder= al=20 order that some out-of-state plants in the West sell California electricity= .=20 Price controls were lifted.=20 Other states have avoided this problem. New York, for instance, encou= raged=20 its utilities to enter into ""transition contracts"" under which plants have = an=20 obligation to sell them power. Similarly, Texas has long-term contracts,=20 under which the utilities buy power for long periods at set prices, allowin= g=20 them to hedge against short-term changes in price. The price of all this bungling will be huge for Californians, but hou= seholds=20 outside California may pay as well. The Western plants that the federal=20 government has forced to supply California's thirst could in time have=20 difficulty supplying their traditional customers, driving up their prices. = In=20 the extreme, the financial instability of California utilities Pacific Gas= =20 and Electric and Southern California Edison could roil markets and add to= =20 recession pressures. At a minimum, most Californians will soon face significant financial = pain =01*=20 unwarranted on their part =01* to pay for the botched deregulation either= =20 through taxes or higher rates. If this bailout isn't accompanied by new=20 rules, the 2002 ending of price caps may bring the worst of all worlds:=20 monopoly markets without price controls. Long term, the best hope for controlling prices is competition, but= =20 California has yet to come up with a convincing plan to make sure that=20 exists. In fact, in the San Diego area, where controls were briefly lifted= =20 without significant new competition, prices more than doubled.=20 Some advocacy groups and politicians are calling for more radical sol= utions,=20 such as a state buyout of the utilities or simple refusal to pay the=20 utilities on the grounds they must be hiding money somewhere. The utilities= ,=20 having tasted their own medicine, now say they'd support re-regulation. But none of these fixes would save California's consumers from the di= m-bulb=20 management that has put the state at risk of power outages and financial=20 catastrophe. California Gov. Gray Davis' said recently that ""if deregulation fails= in=20 California, it is dead in America."" To the contrary, as California does its= =20 repair work, the rest of the county will be taking notes on how not to=20 deregulate as carelessly as California did.    ?  ? ? ? ?   01/03/01- Updated 02:38 AM ET       ? Learn from California mistake=20 By Harvey Rosenfield and Douglas Heller=20 The myth of electricity deregulation has met reality in California, a= nd the=20 result is a $40 billion debacle. Awash in energy-industry campaign contributions, California lawmakers= freed=20 the state's utility companies of price controls in 1996. Consumers were=20 ordered to pay off the utilities' debts, after which competition was suppos= ed=20 to kick in, guaranteeing a 20% rate cut by 2002.=20 Deregulation proved a bonanza for the utilities. They sold some of th= eir=20 power plants and collected $19 billion in ratepayer subsidies. They used th= e=20 money to purchase plants in other countries, reward their executives with= =20 huge pay raises, buy back stock and increase dividends. Profits reached=20 record levels this year. Envious, the handful of unregulated companies that control nearly hal= f of the=20 state's electricity generation decided to cash in, too. This cartel began t= o=20 withhold power, causing shortages that boosted the wholesale price of=20 electricity that utility companies must buy by 3,900%. But, ironically,=20 because of the way they wrote the deregulation law, the utilities are=20 forbidden to pass the higher costs on to most consumers until 2002.=20 Now the companies want to rewrite the law. When public officials resi= sted the=20 utilities' demands for immediate rate hikes, the utilities threatened=20 blackouts and bankruptcy. When that economic extortion failed, Wall Street= =20 issued an ultimatum: Order a 20% rate hike within 48 hours, as a first=20 installment of an $11 billion ratepayer bailout, or Wall Street would itsel= f=20 force the utilities into bankruptcy.=20 California has learned the hard way that electricity is too vital to = be left=20 in the hands of unregulated corporations whose sole interest is maximizing= =20 profits. Facing a ratepayer revolt, state officials have re-imposed=20 regulation. To make electricity reliable and affordable once more, they are= =20 considering establishing a non-profit, publicly owned power system for the= =20 state. But, in the meantime, the deregulation disaster could end up costing= =20 each Californian $12,500. Meanwhile, elsewhere in the nation, corporate-funded ideologues and a= cademics=20 continue to promote electricity deregulation, much as they promoted looseni= ng=20 controls on savings and loans in the 1980s.=20 Whenever you hear the word ""deregulation,"" hold onto your wallets: So= me=20 industry is about to pick your pocket. Harvey Rosenfield and Douglas Heller are consumer advocates with the= =20 Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights. Its Web site:=20 www.consumerwatchdog.org. 
Thanks. 
Can you do this? 
Rick:  it was great to catch up with you the other day in NY.  It seems like it was a very long time ago that we worked together on the PECO deal, doesn't it? I look forward to doing the panel with you at the Utility M&A Symposium in NY on Monday, January 29, 2001.  Our panel is set for around 4:00 that afternoon.  I'll get off a brochure to you, but the panel will discuss price volatility and what strategies there may be for dealing with it.  I thought it would be great if you could address the California situation and your thoughts on why it occurred and what the causes are and perhaps what remedial 
27th/28ths 
Looks good w/ comments from Harry and Sue. Thanks! 
Check out WSJ- Page A2. Also,Bill Bradford in Rick buy's group is person most  proficient on credit issues relative to the three calif. utilities. I will also get back to you this afternoon........The CPUC is scheduled to issue orders today at 12:00 CST that may dramatically affect credit ratings of the 3 utilities. Mark Schroeder@ECT 12/21/2000 08:13 AM 
Rick/Jeff - I just spoke with John Sherriff and mentioned to him how on top of California you guys were.  As you may be aware, we are making markets in the credit of many utilities and telcomm companies, via EnronCredit.com. Brian Seyfried is the commercial leader for this business.  John has asked me to ask you, if you become aware of significant developments, in the public sector (not privileged/insider information), bearing on creditworthiness/ability to pay by California utilities, would you please keep us informed, as we will have a keen interest in these developments? Please forward to this to any others on your team(s) you think appropriate. thanks   mcs 
Please call to discuss. Thanks. 
Rick:  it was great to catch up with you the other day in NY.  It seems like it was a very long time ago that we worked together on the PECO deal, doesn't it? I look forward to doing the panel with you at the Utility M&A Symposium in NY on Monday, January 29, 2001.  Our panel is set for around 4:00 that afternoon.  I'll get off a brochure to you, but the panel will discuss price volatility and what strategies there may be for dealing with it.  I thought it would be great if you could address the California situation and your thoughts on why it occurred and what the causes are and perhaps what remedial 
Jim- I do have faith. BREAKING NEWS! > >  GOD OVERRULES SUPREME COURT VERDICT > Bush to be smitten later today > > (Vatican) In a stunning development this morning, God invoked the ""one > nation, > under God"" clause of the Pledge of Allegiance to overrule Tuesday night's > Supreme Court decision that handed the White House to George Bush. >  ""I'm not sure where the Supreme Court gets off,"" God said this morning on a > rare Today Show appearance, ""but I'm sure as hell not going to lie back and > let > Bush get away with this nonsense."" ""I've watched analysts argue for weeks > now > that the exact vote count in Florida 'will never be known.' Well, I'm God > and I > DO know exactly who voted for whom. Let's cut to the chase: Gore won Florida > by 
Looks good. 
Can do- will get back to you in a few days w/ more details. Thanks. 
Energy Crisis 
FYI 
Energy Crisis We will check.  Joe? Richard Shapiro 04/02/2001 05:20 AM 
Energy Crisis FERC implications for merging EPMI into ENA? 
Energy Crisis 
FYI 
Energy Crisis We will check.  Joe? Richard Shapiro 04/02/2001 05:20 AM 
Energy Crisis FERC implications for merging EPMI into ENA? 
Can do- will get back to you in a few days w/ more details. Thanks. 
I read of your news today regarding moving on to the NE ISO. You'll do great.  I wish you only  the best and want to thank you for all of your efforts and hard work on behalf of the company.  Please feel free to call upon me if there is anything I can do. I hope we can stay in touch. (you will see alot of Dan Allegretti). Thanks again... and I mean it, even if  you're 
Agree wholeheartedly. ""Ronald Carroll"" <rcarroll@bracepatt.com> on 03/23/2001 03:13:37 PM 
I recommend that we consider filing a motion for summary rejection of the ISO's proposal on the ground that it is the product of an illegal board seated in violation of FERC's governance orders that is a highly politicized tool of Governor Davis, rather than an independent body.  In addition to the legal arguments for dismissal, we could also rebut the ISO's economic and market analysis. 
I read of your news today regarding moving on to the NE ISO. You'll do great.  I wish you only  the best and want to thank you for all of your efforts and hard work on behalf of the company.  Please feel free to call upon me if there is anything I can do. I hope we can stay in touch. (you will see alot of Dan Allegretti). Thanks again... and I mean it, even if  you're 
Agree wholeheartedly. ""Ronald Carroll"" <rcarroll@bracepatt.com> on 03/23/2001 03:13:37 PM 
I recommend that we consider filing a motion for summary rejection of the ISO's proposal on the ground that it is the product of an illegal board seated in violation of FERC's governance orders that is a highly politicized tool of Governor Davis, rather than an independent body.  In addition to the legal arguments for dismissal, we could also rebut the ISO's economic and market analysis. 
Thanks. Vince J Kaminski@ECT 01/11/2000 08:01 AM 
Rick, I have just looked at the memo regarding promotions. Congratulations - well deserved. Vince 
Thanks. Vince J Kaminski@ECT 01/11/2000 08:01 AM 
Rick, I have just looked at the memo regarding promotions. Congratulations - well deserved. Vince 
Thanks. Vince J Kaminski@ECT 01/11/2000 08:01 AM 
Rick, I have just looked at the memo regarding promotions. Congratulations - well deserved. Vince 
In advance of my visit next week, could you please prepare a list of priority activities currently underway in your goup( domestic and international ) with some sense of the level of  resources being committed to each of those activities( internal and external resources ) ?  What might also be helpful with respect to each of those activities are short, mid, and long-term objectives,e.g,.value creation, that you have identified. Thanks very much. I 
FYI- Terry is trying, at least with me. 
We used the BIT threat once before when they tried to re-trade TGS's rates in violation of the sales agreement. George Wasaff  can give you all of the details. This time we may have to go all of the way and litigate.  Tax issues in Argentina have also killed trading.  The problem is that the constitution empowers the states with all kinds of taxing authority so if you want changes in policies you have to have a constitutional amendment.  You can imagine the eagerness of politicians to take on that battle. I will be setting up some quality time with you the week of the 21st.  Again, congratulations. This is an exciting and complex part of the world and I can't think of anyone better to bring some focusand results here. 
Terry, here is the summary of the dispute.  Let me know if you would like any additional information, or if would would like me to put this into memo form. Argentine law imposes a stamp tax on written contracts.  In the past several years, the provincial governments of several of the provinces have, in an effort to raise desperately needed revenues, adopted a new and broader interpretation of the tax's application.  These provinces--Rio Negro, Neuquen, and Santa Cruz--have sought to apply this interpretation retroactively, resulting in the imposition of staggering assessments.  For TGS, the Enron company (40% owned) most affected, the assessments total $153 million in taxes, $172 million in interest, and $208 million in fines.  (See attached chart for breakdown). To date, court challenges to the taxes have been unsuccessful.  TGS has pending before the Argentine federal Supreme Court an application to declare the taxes unconstitutional and unlawful, but the Court has, as yet, not acted.  Meanwhile, the provinces are free to attempt to collect the taxes, by levy if necessary. The federal government has, in documents filed in another case, expressed the view that the imposition of stamp taxes in the manner folowed by the provinces is illegal.  Energas has also expressed its view that the taxes are illegal.  The federal Supreme Court, however, has recently denied an application (filed by another company) to enjoin collection of the taxes. On November 23, 1999, Enron notified the federal government that it regarded the imposition of these taxes as in violation of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between Argentina and the U.S.  Since that notification, representatives of Enron and the government have held several meetings. Substantive discussions, however, have not yet begun.  The Treaty mandates a six-month cooling off period before arbitration can be initiated.  If the negotiations with the government are unsuccessful, Enron intends to file an arbitration with the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in Washington, D.C.  By way of information, Endesa currently has an arbitration underway at ICSID challenging the taxes, presumably under a BIT between Spain or Chile and Argentina. 
One of the things I'd like to talk about next week is setting up a process to funnel requests for Ken's time through ( Jeff andf Joe also), so that we're forwarding to him consensus  high priority requests. Thanks. Joe Hillings@ENRON 02/07/2000 07:48 AM 
Ken: While in Europe last week I arranged a meeting with Douglas Worth, Secretary General of the Business Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the OECD. Doug headed the Washington office of IBM until he retired a few years ago, then joined Carla Hills firm and two years ago became Secretary General of the BIAC. During his Washington service for IBM he headed up the Trade Committee of the United States Council for International Business to which we have long been a member. Doug and I discussed the promotion of energy services and he had several suggestions which I found to be excellent. He is a top level person who recommends policy to the OECD. He suggested that he would like to organize a meeting with you briefing OECD ministers and senior staff on business plans of today, changes in the market place and what is necessary to advance a business in today's atmosphere. Doug believes that having such a high level briefing advances the cause of business and competitive policies which is the priority of the OECD. He also called my attention to the OECD Forum 2000 to be held June 26-28 in Paris. Doug has offered to contact Dennis Lamb, another former Washingtonian in the diplomatic service who is arranging the program and if you are available he would ask that you be a primetime speaker. It covers the type of issues that you addressed at the WTO in Seatlle and the World Economic Forum in Davos.  (I would dearly love to have a few minutes briefing from you on your Davos appearances). I think these presentations at the OECD, one a private luncheon with Ministers that Doug thinks would be an informal presentation and the possibility of a slot on the June 26-28 program would be excellent for our cause and hope that your schedule either in June or later can accommodate this opportunity. Joe PS: Doug and his eco-staff director Ms. Hanne Rosenbaum (she knows and has worked with John Palmisano) told me that one of their main themes this year is eco-efficiency which seems to fit our Enron goals. 
June 
What is this?? 
June American Foreign Service Association President Marshall Adair called to advise that of the 10 foreign service officers now in economic training at the Foreign Service Institute, 7 of the 10 had indicated an interest in join ing Enron's Federal Affairs office for the newly instituted Business Practicum. Marshall asked that I call Tom Martin, deputy director of the Office of the Business Coordinator which I did. I agreed that we would take two of the foreign service officers.   Tom Pierce's last post was in Amman, Jordan where he headed the commercial section at the embassy as senior economic officer. Following the Business Practicum, he will be joining the Office of the Business Coordinator which is an excellent fit for us. He had prior assignments in Melbourne and Ecuador where he did counsellor work. He worked at Case-Harvester in sales and marketing and has an MBA. Rob Winchester will be going to one of the ""stans"" after the Business Practicum. His earlier foreign service assignments include regional economic office in Washington with the East Asia Bureau, DOS Operations Center, Malayasia and Romania counsellor assignments. I've agreed to accepting both and will be assigning one to each of you. Carolyn will need to get them an office in the expansion space at Rome. Joe P.S. I think we should organize some briefing materials and take them to lunch so they can be oriented before arrival. 
Do you have a list of ongoing projects the Southern Cone Gov't Affairs group is engaged in?  Please forward to me if you do.( If something does'nt already exist, perhaps you could pull something together at your earliest convenience ) Also, any information as to relative priority of these projects and level of resources ( both internal and external ) you have committed by project would be helpful. I look forward to getting down to Sao Paulo soon to visit with you and your group. Hope your move goes  uneventfully. Thanks for all 
I agree w/ chris's recommendation- you too? 
At his request, I met Lee Sachs, Assistant Treasury Secretary, who had requested the meeting after a brief conversation recently.  Lee said that senior-level negotiations led by Secretary Summers were initiated last week between the CFTC and SEC and that progress was being made on the single stock futures issue (the major issue postponing movement of the legislation). As you know, the House completed committee work on HR 4541 before it recessed.  The bill will now is pending before the Rules Committee where differences will be worked out between the three different Committee versions (Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking).  The Senate Agriculture Committee passed out the Senate version in July.  However, the bill is not moving quickly in the Senate due to Senator Phil Gramm's desire to see significant changes made to the legislation (not directly related to our energy language). Last week at the Republican Convention, I asked the Senator about the bill and he said they were working on it, but much needs to be changed for his support.  More telling perhaps, were Wendy Gramm's comments that she would rather the current bill die if a better bill can be passed next year. What this means is that we must, at the least, remove Senator Gramm's opposition to the bill to move the process and more importantly seek to gain his support of the legislation. Lee Sachs message was just that.  I told Lee that we shared his desire to move the legislation as long as it contains a full exclusion for all non-agriculture commodities (including metals).  He said that we would have a difficult time defending the metals provision politically. But, Lee said  ""we 
OK Keith Miceli@ENRON 08/10/2000 06:04 PM 
Task Team Members:  Attached is Draft # 3 of the Summer Stakeholder letter. It incorporates changes recommended by Jim Bannantine and Rick Shapiro. Please send me your input by COB tomorrow, Friday, August 11, so I can finalize and forward to Dick.  Regards,  Keith 
As the individual responsible within Enron Corp. for coordinating the analysis of regulatory transfer restriction issues in the above-referenced project, I wanted to give each of you a brief update, but more importantly, ask for your help in ensuring, as we move closer to the signing date, that we are fully coordinated on these issues and are prepared to act in a consistent and coordinated fashion across the regions as quickly as possible. Over the last several weeks, the regional general counsel offices, V&E (Bill Weiland), Skadden and myself have been talking to local counsel across the regions to make sure that we fully understand all of the regulatory transfer issues and that we also fully understand the implications of the regulatory transfer restrictions in the context of the ""ABC"" deal structure.  We have now largely completed that process and the conclusions reached during that process have been memorialized in various documents, including the ""ABC Matrix"" that many, if not all of you, have seen.  All that is remaining is confirmation on a South Korean competition agency issue and the completion of the analysis relative to the Wind assets in Europe regarding EU competition agency issues. Those two items should be completed by early next week.  We have also recently begun the process of preparing documents that will be necessary for the approval of the transfer of Elektro in Brazil...which brings me to the second issue, coordination and preparation. Having reached a critical juncture with the completition of virtually all of the regulatory analysis, the next step is to plan for the announcement of the transaction...more specifically, ensuring that regulatory/governmental communication assignments for both pre and post announcement are fully agreed upon and understood by all... and that the process of drafting the necessary requests for regulatory approval documents is agreed upon and begun as soon as possible.  To ensure that this all happens in a timely manner and with quality, I would like to request that one individual from each operating region and company be assigned as the point person so that I can have a single individual within each operating unit to go to that has the authority to put together the comprehensive regulatory transfer plan and the responsibility for assuring the execution of the plan, both during the periods of time leading up to signing and announcement and during the transition period leading up to closing.  I would respectfully ask that the names of these individuals be communicated to me by close of business Wednesday, August 16, 2000 to provide us sufficient time to address the work that lies before us.  I have taken the liberty of listing my suggestions for the responsible individuals (where I have suggestions) for the respective operating regions/companies, but these are only suggestions and I will defer to your choices.  Thank you for your assistance and if you have any questions, feel free to contact me at extension 33407 in Houston or by pager at 888-740-9949. Enron South America   Jose Bestard Enron Wind    Eric B. Newell India     Jane Wilson Apachi     Mike Dahlke 
I agree with David- we should work these issues into our discussion w/ Luntz on Friday. I think Haug captured the issues we have to grapple with better than we've been able to thus far. 
Steve, thanks for the helpful materials. However, if the experience in overseas deregulating electricity markets where price increases and spikes have occurred is any precedent, we will need to have some more down-to-earth responses to a some of the potentially inflammatory issues facing the politicians: 1. When the prices spike, who reaps the windfall? Who sells that most expensive 1% of the kwh? Is it a careful planner or a lucky speculator or market manipulator? Someone is making a bunch of money off the screwed up system. Who is it, and why is that OK? 2. We do not allow people to inflate water prices to consumers in times of drought, or food prices in times of hurricanes or floods. Even gasoline price increases in periods of high demand are within 20%-30% of the base, not 2,5,10 or 100 times the average like spot electric prices. The issue isn't whether the system is broken or not or how bad partial regulation is or how 
As I promised this morning at the executive committee meeting, below are some talking points for your use. Overall message:  the market is working, regulation is not. In California, peak demand rose by 10% over the last 4 years while new capacity grew by only 2%.  But, as you would expect, the market responded by proposing 8,000MW of new generation - - more than enough to offset the peak demand growth.  The regulatory process, at both the state and local level, has failed to site this new generation.  The problem is regulation, not deregulation. When San Diego customers began experiencing the effects of higher prices, Enron responded with a fixed price which would have shielded San Diego customers from price volatility and provided prices below their current summer levels (Enron's price was about $55/MWH).  After publication of Enron's offer, nine other companies made offers.  Again, the market responded where regulation failed.  San Diego has not accepted any of these offers because of regulatory/legislative restrictions on its ability to buy outside of the PX (i.e. the spot market). In markets where siting is easier, suppliers have moved to build additional generation.  Enron built 3 plants in response to the 1998 price spikes. Those plants were planned, sited and built in less that 12 months - - in time for the summer of 1999.  Where regulatory hurdles are lower, the market responds. The solution to current pricing and reliability issues is more competition not reregulation.  Policy makers should: Open the transmission grid so that power can get from where it is to where it is needed. Expedite interconnection of new generation. Expedite siting of new facilities. Give customers a choice, so that they have better access to demand side solutions. Also attached is a more detailed discussion of California, prepared by Jeff Dasovich of our San Francisco office. 
FYI 
FYI 
I guess because of the way the message was sent to me, I cannot include text in return, but responding to your question of what does Joe's last comment mean, presumably, it is that on these issues of WTO, I am not competent to advise you on them.  Leaving that aside, I further suspect that he sees me as the bette noir of the WTO ESC effort.  Finally, you might talk to Tom Briggs.  I think Joe has stood Tom's position on its head.  Joe has argued that we need to be in the ESC, because other things we care about like financial services regulation and e-commerce will be implicated.  He says Tom argues that we must liberalise energy to realise these objectives.  As I understand Tom (and he can speak for himself), if we do not get energy services liberalised (and the exclusion of third-party access is tantamount to not getting energy services liberalised) then the make-weight arguments about e-commerce and financial services fall away, at least as props/arguments for continuing the ESC.    talk to you later today   mcs 
I had shared my note to you with Peter.  Thought you would find his reply comment of interest.  Peter and I are both very frustrated/disappointed (you probably knew that), but I think Joe knows it, too, which further explains his derogatory comment about us in London.  mcs 
Raggett intervention likely attributable to Exxon again. I warned Joe and Bob Fisher about their insidious influence in April when I went to Washington. Also at that time Bob, Chris and I talked in detail about how to get TPA onto agenda through a coda or ancillary agreement to basic service provision/ investment categorisation, as happened for telecom in GATS. Who took their eye off the ball? Mark Schroeder 10/24/2000 05:35 PM 
my note, and the attachment to which it refers, are self-explanatory, and have obviously made me very unhappy.  What a waste of time and money by Joe!   mcs 
Tom Briggs was good enough to forward to me a piece of correspondence that Joe Hillings apparently shared with him.  My lack of enthusiasm for our WTO initiative, I know, has hardly been masked, but, frankly, what is contained in the incoming letter, below, I find quite disconcerting.  I have argued that in our key markets, e.g., Europe, Japan, etc. (I am assuming we do not need it in the USA, even today) the WTO initiative, i.e., liberalisation of energy siervices, would be of little value by the time it was implemented.  I had, apparently mistakenly, at least assumed that liberalisation of energy siervices at a minimum meant third-party access to transmission networks.  If not, then what the heck are we doing in this fight.  BUT, as you will see from the incoming, below, when Paul Hennemeyer, of my team here in London, joined Joe and Bob Fisher in Geneva to do a presentation on liberalisation of energy services in WTO, it provoked a letter, to which Joe responded, saying that the US Energy Services Coalition has NEVER taken a position on thrid party access, and it is doubtful they could agree to such a position (Joe agreed, and said this was just an Enron company position!).  You can probably guess my position on this, but I thought I would forward this to you for your information, and, if warranted, follow up, as the conversations we have had have never led me to believe that either of you thought we were pursuing a WTO initiative which did NOT involve third party access.   thanks  mcs 
Last Thursday, I made the first attached presentation to the FERC Staff at the power marketer's meeting on the FERC's investigation of the wholesale market in the West (and in particular California).  Ellen Wolf (of Tabors Caramanis) and I created this presentation building on previous presentations by Tim Belden and Dave Parquet.  In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: There isn't much FERC can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market.  We discouraged FERC from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the California and the rest of the West as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the Commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The IOUs have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity.  They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at ISO real time prices.  My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The Commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in Powerpoint.  When you do, you will find there are many ""hidden"" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to Staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (Scott Miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than Staff's previous meetings with the IOUs and the generators.  Based on the numerous phone calls I've been getting, the Staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that Tim sent to Scott Miller on Friday.  Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message.  On Friday, Tim talked to Scott and answered some additional questions.  Tim said that Enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory PX buying requirement and would like the IOUs to be able to buy from Enron Online.  He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . 
Rick, Below is the transcript of the story you asked about this morning.  I have a video copy of it as well that you can view upon your return.  Thanks, Ann 
BROADCAST TRANSCRIPT Video Monitoring Services of America, Inc. 10260 Westheimer Houston, TX 77042 (713) 789-1635 (713) 789-0980 (FAX) Date      September 07, 2000 Time      08:00 AM - 08:30 AM Station   CNN Headline News Location  Network Program   Headline News Jacque Reid, anchor: To save money, consumers are finding ways to cut down on costly electricity bills.  Greg Clarking reports on how to get better rates using the Internet. Greg Clarking reporting: Helene Baldizzone, a New York City artist, was growing increasingly concerned about rising electricity costs, so she signed up with start-up electricity retailer SmartEnergy.com. Helene Baldizzone (SmartEnergy.com Customer):  I thought, OK, well, let's try somebody else because the bills had been going up little by little every month with ConEdison.  So I thought, well, I have nothing to lose at this point. Clarking:  Baldizzone is happy with SmartEnergy where she has locked in a rate of 8.3 cents per kilowatt hour.  She was paying as much as 13.3 cents per kilowatt hour before switching.  SmartEnergy says its goal is to let consumers take advantage of the sometimes confusing options created by deregulation of the energy industry. Gautam Chandra (President/CEO, SmartEnergy.com):  What we are doing is taking that confusion away by being the agents for the customer in terms of looking at the best prices, locking in the best prices for them. Clarking:  SmartEnergy, currently available in New York City, will be available in all twenty-four deregulated states within the next few months. There are a number of electricity suppliers in each of the deregulated states and consumers can save a lot of money by doing a little research. Rick Cowles (Energyland.com):  Don't sit back and just hang in there and wait and see what's going to happen a year or two down the road because you're going to find that electric rates have definitely changed in a year or two and it may not be to your advantage. Clarking:  To find out what energy options are available in your area, you can call your state's public utility commission or click on to Energyland.com for a complete list of energy suppliers and their rates. Cowles:  Right now, consumers are kind of in a unique position where they do have the ability to go in and see some immediate savings. Baldizzone:  It's easy.  But I like especially saving the money.  It's better in my pocket. Clarking:  That's Your Money.  Greg Clarking, CNN, New York. # # # For a videocassette(TV) or audiocassette(radio) of this news segment contact your nearest VMS office Material supplied by Video Monitoring Services may only be used for internal review, analysis or research.  Any publication, re-broadcast or public display for profit is forbidden. 
Can't open- meeting w/ Breathitt went well .. still alot of work to do- will keep you  advised. Ralph Reed <ralph@censtrat.com> on 09/08/2000 12:14:30 PM 
Here's another good candidate for head of the DC office you guys may want to sit down with.  Elizabeth Stolpe headed the DC office for Champion Industries, is highly respected on the Hill and the political community, and got a golden parachute when International Paper bought Champion.  I have attached her resume.  (If you can't open this, email me to that effect and I'll fax this.) How goes it with Breathed? - Elizabeth Stolpe.max 
Ditto Palmer's comments. Jeff Brown 09/27/99 03:20 PM 
Attached is the draft press release prepared by EEI announcing the joint effort with our coalition (CUBR).  I need your comments/questions/concerns by close of business on Sept. 29. Thanks, Jeff 
Can we do? 
Sam tells me (confirmed by Sierra) that the Governor is expected to make an announcement about the market opening date, etc.,, by this Wednesday.   Can we get Ken Lay to make a call early this week? I've attached some message points and a backgrounder.    Page me if you need to chat. 
Can we make it happen? 
Here are some thoughts. 
Can we discuss? 
Here's my effort to respond to the PRC discussion we had in Kohler. The criteria for evaluating folks is at the end of the presentation ... but I took the liberty to go a bit further and comprehensively address the PRC process.    Hope I didn't overstep my bounds .... I'm around today, as well as Monday (ENA meeting most of the day) and Tuesday, but then traveling in Reno, Las Vegas and San Francisco for the remainder of the week.   I'd welcome the opportunity to discuss the reasoning and rationale behind the document. As I said on my voice mail, I circulated the document to the attendees at Kohler (with the exception of Sue L. and Linda R.).  I've had feedback from a number of the attendees, but I can't call it a consensus document. As always, thanks for the opportunity to make suggestions like this. 
Thoughts? 
Tend to agree?????????????????  What does that mean????????????????????????????????????????????????????/ 
Good news and bad news. First, the good news.  The DPUC issued a final compliance decision (attached) Thursday approving the ENA prices and removing the draft language that would have released special contract customers. The bad news is that we are falling behind in finalizing the agreements with UI.  Mostly this is due to unavailability of some of the UI personnel.  The one business issue that is causing a bit of concern on their end is a fear that they have promised us too much in the way of an option on their nuclear generation.  In any event, they have already made the commitments in our binding MOU.  This issue is not a deal breaker but it is contributing to the delay.  Right now we are scheduled to meet with them in NY Tuesday the 14th through Thursday the 16th.  As a result, I can not be in Houston on the 15th as planned.  I am, however, still trying to make it for the 16th.  Perhaps we can reschedule our meeting sometime on the 16th.  Fallon and I are meeting at 8:30 on the 17th to discuss the project also. 
Great news and congrats! Robert Hemstock@ECT 11/26/2000 01:19 AM 
Rick, You will recall Steve Kean participated in a conference call on Nov 14 with John Lavorato et al to discuss emergency Pool Rule changes that the Power Pool intended to implement in two days.  We developed a 5 point action plan to deal with the proposed Power Pool rule changes that would have a significant impact on the value of Enron's PPA investment in Alberta. By way of update to Steve, you may wish to brief him that: 1) It appears the Power Pool will not proceed with the rule change designed to exclude importers from setting pool price.  They will proceed with dispatch risk rule changes but we have given input on those too and I am optimistic that Enron will be able to live with these rule changes, the final wording of which we should see on Monday, 2) We  have set up a meeting with the Minister of Resource Development (you, Rob Milnthorp and I will attend) on December 11 to encourage the Alberta Government to stay the course, and 3) This week we will finalize our ""Lessons from other Jurisdictions"" document (that Steve sent me materials to include in) and will provide it to the Alberta Government and Power Pool and then follow up with them. 
The attached memo provides an update on the status of the Power Pool's further consideration of the proposed rule changes.  In summary, it appears the Pool will not proceed with the proposal to exclude import offers from setting pool price but will recommend a rule that reduces ability of suppliers to become price takers on volumes that were originally priced too high to clear the merit order.  I will receive more specifics on the dispatch risk rule change on Monday. Regards, Rob 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
How difficult issues are resolved in Illinois.......... 
I think you're missing a ""solve"" in last sentence. 
Thanks- you got it about right .....except that Kean's Democratic credentials are seriously in question these days as are his "" liberal- minded"" credentials. You may have won over an individual  who can now clearly  be categorized as a lost soul. ""Foster, Gary"" <GFoster@Antigenics.com> on 11/30/2000 08:07:18 AM 
Hello everyone: Last evening there were several receptions in Sacramento which allowed us to chat with some interesting folks about the energy situation. Bob Foster said Edison is very close to declaring bankruptcy.  He said maybe it would be the best thing if the Federal court were involved anyway because he was not having much influence on policy discussions and legislative decisions. An hour and a half discussion with Steve Peace can be summarized as follows: 1.  He believes Enron has done a masterful job of manipulating the market. 2.  He believes it may not be too late for Enron, specifically Ken Lay, to use the Federal government to stabilize the market.  Lay's influence with Bush could set up a system with true competition (perhaps publicly-owned generation could be a competitor) and fair and just prices. 3.  Peace himself will not be a major player in energy solutions. He'll be in Puerta Vallarta with his wife for half of January to prove the point. 4.  He suggests having Jim Brulte, Senate Minority Leader and Bush campaigner, get involved to promote a proactive solution which includes Ken Lay and President Bush.  (I'm calling Brulte today to get a reaction) 5.  He believes there is a good chance that the Sempra, Edison and PG&E go into bankruptcy.  Ultimately that would be very bad for Enron for a variety of reasons which I could not follow and/or retain. The Director of the Department of Consumer Affairs said her office received a call yesterday afternoon from the Governor's office directing them, and all other state agencies, to turn off all computers by 4:00 p.m.  The Governor wanted to light the capitol Xmas tree and was concerned there would be too much drain on the power system.  He didn't want to be accused of adding to the electricity shortage, so the trade off was no state compputers would be used while the tree was lit.  The tree was turned off after half an hour.  Sandi has this morning's Sacramento Bee article which described the incident in somewhat different detail. 
On November 8, the Office of the Chairman, issued an important communicatio= n,=20 announcing significant organizational changes in Enron's worldwide=20 operations. The purpose of this memo is to share with you the decisions tha= t=20 are underway to restructure  Enron=01,s operations in South America.  The b= asic=20 organizational framework has been set.=20 As you know, Diomedes Christodoulou and Jim Bannantine will be assuming new= =20 responsibilities within Enron. Replacing them will be Orlando Gonzalez and= =20 Joe Kishkill, who will become the Co-Presidents of South America, reporting= =20 to Dave Delainey and John Lavorato.  They will share overall responsibility= ;=20 however, Orlando=01,s focus will be on direct sales origination,=20 commercial/government relationships and regulatory issues.  Joe=01,s focus = will=20 be on wholesale origination, financial and operating performance and overal= l=20 country management.  In addition, Orlando will continue as President and CE= O=20 of Elektro until its ultimate sale. The existing, large integrated asset base in South America (excluding=20 Elektro) will be managed and operated by Rebecca McDonald and Jim Hughes in= =20 Enron Global Assets, which is part of Enron Wholesale Services under Mark= =20 Frevert. Ultimately, there will be very close coordination in both Brazil a= nd=20 Argentina between Enron Americas and Enron Global Assets to ensure that our= =20 reputation in South America is protected, our asset positions are being=20 managed prudently and that commercial opportunities surrounding these asset= s=20 are pursued. The remaining natural gas and electrical commercial activities in South=20 America will be organized around the highly successful North American netwo= rk=20 business model.  This model employs people, market making, physical=20 commodities, capital and assets to provide reliable, flexible and high-valu= e=20 products to our customers.  It is people and intellectual capital based and= =20 enjoys high rates of return on invested capital. In the interest of pursuing this strategy, the following teams will report = to=20 Joe and Orlando: =20 The Commercial Origination team will be lead by Brett Wiggs.  The team will= =20 focus on covering South American markets, primarily Brazilian and Argentine= =20 natural gas and electricity, with the following goals: ? Generating new, innovative, reliable and high value products and services= =20 needed by the market by utilizing our commodity, asset and capital=20 capabilities; ? Providing those products and services across South America and across the= =20 value chain, including wholesale and retail, based upon the highest value= =20 opportunity; ? Finding structural value arbitrages in the South American market and move= =20 quickly to capitalize; ? Assisting the Risk Management and Trading organization in managing the=20 overall risk of the organization; ? Managing all new power and asset development opportunities in South Ameri= ca=20 consistent with this strategy, and ? Providing the Risk Management and Trading organization information and de= al=20 flow. The Commercial Origination team will consist of a diverse group of people w= ho=20 work as a single team which bring the required skills including commodity,= =20 capital, regulatory, asset, development, market, structuring, deal executio= n,=20 finance and country knowledge necessary to reach our goals.=20 The Trading and Risk Management team will be headed by Remi Collonges.  The= =20 team will continue to develop pricing information and manage the price book= =20 for the relevant energy markets in support of the wholesale and direct sale= s=20 efforts.  Additionally, the team will work toward implementation of activel= y=20 trading South American energy commodities.  This group will be responsible= =20 for managing Enron South America=01,s overall risk and will have a direct= =20 reporting relationship with John Lavorato in his role as head of the Americ= as=20 risk activities. The Argentine effort will be integrated into the overall South American=20 Commercial Origination and Trading and Risk Management groups; however, we= =20 will continue to maintain an Argentine office headed by Michael Guerriero. = =20 The goal of the reorganization is to create a flat team oriented organizati= on=20 that is very market and commercially focused.  The following support=20 functions will assist the overall business objectives of the commercial tea= m=20 and will report into Joe and Orlando, plus into their line functions in=20 Houston.  The overall goal is to ensure that the South American business=20 units have an adequate support organization to evaluate opportunities, as= =20 well as manage day-to-day business and risk.  Otherwise, the Houston=20 infrastructure will provide resources as needed to manage peak requirements= =20 in South America, not unlike other businesses in Enron Americas. These groups include: The Government Affairs team, which will be headed by Sergio Assad, will=20 manage the relationships with the relevant regulatory agencies as well as= =20 governmental ministries.  The primary regulatory goal will be to facilitate= ,=20 in the near term, substantive changes to the regulatory rules to allow a=20 functioning wholesale traded market in Brazil and Argentina. Sergio will=20 assume his responsibilities upon completion of the Elektro sale.  During th= is=20 interim period, Jose Bestard will continue to be in charge of the regulator= y=20 function.  Once Sergio makes the transition, he will also report to Rick=20 Shapiro in Enron Government Affairs. The Finance team will be headed by Britaldo Soares.  The team will manage t= he=20 interface with Enron Global Finance.  Britaldo will transition from his=20 current duties at Elektro upon completion of the Elektro sale.  Britaldo wi= ll=20 also report to Joe Deffner in Enron Global Finance.  Rob Gay will be=20 assisting Britaldo during the transition, while continuing his work on the= =20 Cuiaba project. The Legal team, which will be lead by Randy Young, as general counsel, and= =20 John Novak, as deputy general counsel, will manage South America=01,s legal= =20 requirements.  Randy and John will also report to Mark Haedicke in Enron=20 Wholesale Services - Legal Department. Miguel Padron will become Chief of Staff.  Human Resources, Information=20 Technology, Treasury, Accounting & Reporting, as well as Administration wil= l=20 report to Miguel.  This will bring focus to essential, but non-commercial= =20 functions, as well as more efficiently manage key matrix reporting=20 relationships with Enron.  Miguel will also report to David Oxley in Enron= =20 Wholesale Services =01) Human Resources and Wes Colwell in Enron Wholesale= =20 Services =01) Business Analysis and Reporting. These changes are consistent with Enron's evolving business strategy and=20 reflect our continuing commitment to grow the company by maximizing our=20 financial and intellectual capital.  However, in line with the new=20 organizational structure and the near term potential for business in the=20 region, further budget reductions will be necessary.  People directly=20 affected will be notified shortly. =20 Enron is committed to continue the successful implementation of its=20 businesses in South America.  We believe that as the markets develop, we ar= e=20 uniquely positioned to leverage Enron=01,s core capabilities and create=20 shareholder value.=20 
I agree w/ Mary and made this point earlier. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 12:22 PM 
I'm not sure whether we want Hoecker to make the fourth point.  What do others think? 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
What time is call and what is #? 
Read last quote from Steve Fetter. 
CC list suppressed... December 13, 2000 Energy Price Volatility May Hurt Utilities' Credit By REBECCA SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL Recent volatility in wholesale energy markets is undermining the credit ratings and may eventually crimp the borrowing ability of some of the nation's biggest utilities, long regarded in the credit markets as some of the safest bets around. It is the worst out West, where the price of power to be delivered Wednesday hit a new high of $1,182 per megawatt hour on California's state-sanctioned auction, a benchmark for the entire region. That compares with $30 a year ago. But even utilities in the East, such as GPU Inc. of Parsippany, N.J., and Consolidated Edison of New York, also are at risk because they are paying higher prices than ever for spot-market electricity purchases and aren't always able to pass along that cost to their customers. As an indication of just how bad things are getting, Moody's Investors Service Tuesday put Seattle City Light on ""negative outlook,"" even though it is one of the lowest-cost generators in the nation. There hasn't been much rain in the Northwest this year and the city-owned utility has been forced to go to the wholesale market this month to buy 100 to 200 megawatts of electricity each day. That isn't much energy, but with prices that have gone as high as $1,000 per megawatt hour this week, compared with the $24 per megawatt hour that the municipal utility pays for power from the federal hydroelectric system, costs add up fast. The utility, which issued $100 million in bonds this week, is raising rates 10%, effective Jan. 1, and will keep the rate increase in effect as long as it takes to dig its way out. ""Prices are at absurd levels,"" says Seattle City Light Superintendent Gary Zarker. ""I know others are looking at 
The following is the list of suppliers referenced by Governor Davis in today 's Washington, DC press conference.  For those of you that are IEP members, it would be helpful if you forwarded to IEP any comments you have made or plan on making to the press. These suppliers have advised the ISO that they are unwilling to sell power into the California markets. Dynegy Power Marketing Trans Alta Eugene Water and Electric Southern Energy Trading PowerEx (BC Hydro) Public Service Colorado Enron Power Marketing Portland General Avista (Washington Water Power) Idaho Power Company PPL Montana Seattle City Light Puget Sound Energy Julee Malinowski-Ball Edson + Modisette jmball@ns.net 
One of the things I'd like to talk about next week is setting up a process to funnel requests for Ken's time through ( Jeff andf Joe also), so that we're forwarding to him consensus  high priority requests. Thanks. Joe Hillings@ENRON 02/07/2000 07:48 AM 
Ken: While in Europe last week I arranged a meeting with Douglas Worth, Secretary General of the Business Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the OECD. Doug headed the Washington office of IBM until he retired a few years ago, then joined Carla Hills firm and two years ago became Secretary General of the BIAC. During his Washington service for IBM he headed up the Trade Committee of the United States Council for International Business to which we have long been a member. Doug and I discussed the promotion of energy services and he had several suggestions which I found to be excellent. He is a top level person who recommends policy to the OECD. He suggested that he would like to organize a meeting with you briefing OECD ministers and senior staff on business plans of today, changes in the market place and what is necessary to advance a business in today's atmosphere. Doug believes that having such a high level briefing advances the cause of business and competitive policies which is the priority of the OECD. He also called my attention to the OECD Forum 2000 to be held June 26-28 in Paris. Doug has offered to contact Dennis Lamb, another former Washingtonian in the diplomatic service who is arranging the program and if you are available he would ask that you be a primetime speaker. It covers the type of issues that you addressed at the WTO in Seatlle and the World Economic Forum in Davos.  (I would dearly love to have a few minutes briefing from you on your Davos appearances). I think these presentations at the OECD, one a private luncheon with Ministers that Doug thinks would be an informal presentation and the possibility of a slot on the June 26-28 program would be excellent for our cause and hope that your schedule either in June or later can accommodate this opportunity. Joe PS: Doug and his eco-staff director Ms. Hanne Rosenbaum (she knows and has worked with John Palmisano) told me that one of their main themes this year is eco-efficiency which seems to fit our Enron goals. 
FYI- Terry is trying, at least with me. 
We used the BIT threat once before when they tried to re-trade TGS's rates in violation of the sales agreement. George Wasaff  can give you all of the details. This time we may have to go all of the way and litigate.  Tax issues in Argentina have also killed trading.  The problem is that the constitution empowers the states with all kinds of taxing authority so if you want changes in policies you have to have a constitutional amendment.  You can imagine the eagerness of politicians to take on that battle. I will be setting up some quality time with you the week of the 21st.  Again, congratulations. This is an exciting and complex part of the world and I can't think of anyone better to bring some focusand results here. 
Terry, here is the summary of the dispute.  Let me know if you would like any additional information, or if would would like me to put this into memo form. Argentine law imposes a stamp tax on written contracts.  In the past several years, the provincial governments of several of the provinces have, in an effort to raise desperately needed revenues, adopted a new and broader interpretation of the tax's application.  These provinces--Rio Negro, Neuquen, and Santa Cruz--have sought to apply this interpretation retroactively, resulting in the imposition of staggering assessments.  For TGS, the Enron company (40% owned) most affected, the assessments total $153 million in taxes, $172 million in interest, and $208 million in fines.  (See attached chart for breakdown). To date, court challenges to the taxes have been unsuccessful.  TGS has pending before the Argentine federal Supreme Court an application to declare the taxes unconstitutional and unlawful, but the Court has, as yet, not acted.  Meanwhile, the provinces are free to attempt to collect the taxes, by levy if necessary. The federal government has, in documents filed in another case, expressed the view that the imposition of stamp taxes in the manner folowed by the provinces is illegal.  Energas has also expressed its view that the taxes are illegal.  The federal Supreme Court, however, has recently denied an application (filed by another company) to enjoin collection of the taxes. On November 23, 1999, Enron notified the federal government that it regarded the imposition of these taxes as in violation of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between Argentina and the U.S.  Since that notification, representatives of Enron and the government have held several meetings. Substantive discussions, however, have not yet begun.  The Treaty mandates a six-month cooling off period before arbitration can be initiated.  If the negotiations with the government are unsuccessful, Enron intends to file an arbitration with the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in Washington, D.C.  By way of information, Endesa currently has an arbitration underway at ICSID challenging the taxes, presumably under a BIT between Spain or Chile and Argentina. 
In advance of my visit next week, could you please prepare a list of priority activities currently underway in your goup( domestic and international ) with some sense of the level of  resources being committed to each of those activities( internal and external resources ) ?  What might also be helpful with respect to each of those activities are short, mid, and long-term objectives,e.g,.value creation, that you have identified. Thanks very much. I 
Do you have a list of ongoing projects the Southern Cone Gov't Affairs group is engaged in?  Please forward to me if you do.( If something does'nt already exist, perhaps you could pull something together at your earliest convenience ) Also, any information as to relative priority of these projects and level of resources ( both internal and external ) you have committed by project would be helpful. I look forward to getting down to Sao Paulo soon to visit with you and your group. Hope your move goes  uneventfully. Thanks for all 
June 
What is this?? 
June American Foreign Service Association President Marshall Adair called to advise that of the 10 foreign service officers now in economic training at the Foreign Service Institute, 7 of the 10 had indicated an interest in join ing Enron's Federal Affairs office for the newly instituted Business Practicum. Marshall asked that I call Tom Martin, deputy director of the Office of the Business Coordinator which I did. I agreed that we would take two of the foreign service officers.   Tom Pierce's last post was in Amman, Jordan where he headed the commercial section at the embassy as senior economic officer. Following the Business Practicum, he will be joining the Office of the Business Coordinator which is an excellent fit for us. He had prior assignments in Melbourne and Ecuador where he did counsellor work. He worked at Case-Harvester in sales and marketing and has an MBA. Rob Winchester will be going to one of the ""stans"" after the Business Practicum. His earlier foreign service assignments include regional economic office in Washington with the East Asia Bureau, DOS Operations Center, Malayasia and Romania counsellor assignments. I've agreed to accepting both and will be assigning one to each of you. Carolyn will need to get them an office in the expansion space at Rome. Joe P.S. I think we should organize some briefing materials and take them to lunch so they can be oriented before arrival. 
FYI 
I already sent this to Mary.  Some interesting quotes from Dick O'Neill.  Let mw know if any of you want to see Seabron's paper 
Trying this again.? Attached are Seabron's  Notes to the recent FERC meeting.? Please treat these as confidential and  not for public distribution. - 00-02-13 SA Memo on FERC meeting on market power.doc 
FYI 
WRONG - We would find monopolies in supply and generation intolerable. thanks   mcs Joe Hillings@ENRON 24/03/2000 20:43 
To all -- Below is a proposed response to Carol Balassa's question, which gets at the impact of the energy services effort on government monopolies for the ownership and provision of energy.  As I have received various comments from a variety of people, I have tried to reflect what I see as a general consensus.  The response is drafted as coming from USTR, not from the ESC. We should be prepared to discuss this on Monday [Tim, I know you will be away, so if you have any comments, I'd welcome them before you head out.] Regards to all -- Bob 7.  What impact would such a description of ""energy services"" have in a country where the government retains a monopoly over the ownership and provision of energy? ""The United States welcomes and supports the efforts of countries that are privatizing and deregulating their energy and energy services sectors.  It believes such actions are in all parties' economic interests. However, as part of WTO negotiations on energy services, we seek neither to require governments to privatize ownership of energy resources or the provision of energy or to break up existing monopolies. Our goals are market access commitments and a regulatory framework that ensure that energy services firms are able to compete with all suppliers in the provision of energy services on a fair, non-discriminatory basis, under a timely, transparent and independent regulatory framework, including access to transmission and distribution networks.  We want to ensure that where monopolies exist, that they do not abuse that 
telecommunication markets 
FYI 
telecommunication markets Rick, Here are some articles which examine the ineffectiveness of WTO agreement (1997) on the opening up of the telecommunication markets around the world. One of the major forthcoming issues is Japan's risk of tbeing aken to the WTO over its high access costs in the Japanese domestic market. Both the US and EU have been urging the Japanese to bring down the cost or face the consequences.  We are still waiting to see what will happen in Brussels? Whether the WTO have enough power to enforce its regulations would be a major factor in determining the its prowess in the future. best regards, xi xi 
FYI 
We need to discuss. 
Rick, As per your request -- please see the attached proposed electricity budget. Thanks, Carolyn 
Hardcopies also to follow. 
Please find attached Section I from the 4/6 draft of the IM. - #251862 v1 - SECTION 1.doc 
Let's discuss when you're back in- not urgent. 
The attached memo has been approved by Linda Robertson, Lisa Yoho, and Chris Long.  Additionally, we have a call memo for Ken Lay, that we will forward on early next week. Chris Long will be in touch on Tuesday to help coordinate the recommended calls. Thanks, Larry Decker (202) 466-9163 
Can you all prepare briefing paper for Ken on Oliver as well as those we don't support? Thanks. 
FYI 
Here's a first draft of the emergency powers memo Sarah put together with V&E.  We are still awaiting one more section on the Federal Reserve's authority.  As you will note, there is remarkable authority vested in the President, including eminent domain.  Please note page 7, which read in combination with footnote #4 gives wide authority to the Federal government. Let's decide soon how we want to use this memo.  Thanks. - 140855_1.DOC 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontiereconomics.com> on 05/21/2001 09:19:19 AM Please respond to <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> 
Rick: Please find attached a short memo regarding last week's call with Jim and the Enron RTO team. It also has some thoughts on what we might cover with Steve K. at 2:00 p.m. CDT today. Some other time I would like to have a quick chat about how we move to the next step with the RTOs. It strikes me that there has been a real absence of cleare-headed thinking in the stakeholder chin-wagging sessions. If FERC will not impose a single design - on an abbreviated timeframe - is there another way to add some economic logic into the equation? Speak to you later... Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-05-21 SA Memo to Rick Shapiro on RTO conference call.doc 
FYI 
As we discussed....... as much flesh as we can put on this by midday tommorrow would be quite helpful. I would think there are significant aggregation opportunities available to us once this is implemented. Let me know what else you need from me. Thanks. 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
FYI Orlando Gonzalez 05/09/2001 08:22 PM 
I skipped your name on this one.  We are fully engaged on both these issues= . =20 
Attached is the summary of Dennis Bakke's comments on AES investment plan f= or Brazil.  Apparently these were  on CNN.  These are the same positions we an= d=20 the Investors Group have been discussing with government officials.=20 =20 The second article is on the rationing situation which will result in cuts= =20 of over 20% over the next 6 months. We are preparing a summary of the impacts on our business for discussion=20 with =20 you this week. AES Suspends Brazil Investments US-based power company AES Corp. has put on hold plans to invest between US$2 billion and US$2.5 billion on energy projects in Brazil, alleging that= =20 the government=01,s policy on pricing is jeopardizing its operations. AES President Dennis Bakke, on a brief visit to Brazil, said the company suspended indefinitely its plans to build as many as 10 thermoelectric powe= r plants. Bakke criticized Brazil's electricity sector regulator Aneel for maintainin= g=20 an energy policy that charged what Bakke said were ``unrealistically low price= s=20 for consumers,'' forcing AES to carry the burden of rising costs. He said investments would remain on hold until the government came up with a solution. AES has already invested US$6 billion in Brazil, primarily in electricity projects, making it one of the country's top private foreign investors. Energy Blackouts To Begin June 1 The government announced Tuesday that it will begin a policy of programmed blackouts starting June 1 as part of its energy rationing plan. Mines and Energy Ministry officials had at first hoped to delay any blackou= ts until August, concentrating first on a program to induce consumers to reduc= e energy use. The critical level of reservoirs in the country=01,s main=20 hydroelectric plants, however, forced Tuesday=01,s decision to accelerate the blackouts w= hich=20 will last until the end of November when the rainy season begins. The blackouts will occur in the Southeast, Central-West and Northeast regio= ns of the country. At the same time the government will introduce a program=20 providing incentives to consumers to reduce their energy use. The goal of the plan is= =20 to lower electricity consumption by 20%. Although the general outline of the rationing plan was announced Tuesday, t= he details have yet to be worked out due to differences between the government ministers who compose the National Energy Policy Council (CNPE). A new meeting of CNPE was set for May 23 by which time it is hoped that an agreem= ent will have been reached on how to implement the plan. The initial proposal from Mines and Energy was for a 15% reduction for industry, 20% for residences and between 18% and 20% for commerce. The ministries of finance, planning and development, however, asked for more ti= me=20 to consider the impact of the energy cuts. The principal concern among government officials is with the impact on the economy of the proposed blackouts. According to a study to be released toda= y=20 by the Get?lio Vargas Foundation, a 20% energy cut would slow economic growth = by 1.5% of gross domestic product and would have a direct impact on 850,000 jo= bs. Production costs for industry would rise 1.5%, government tax receipts woul= d decline by R$6.6 billion (US$2.9 billion) and Brazil=01,s trade deficit wou= ld=20 increase by US$1.6 billion, according to the study. The study=01,s authors also said= =20 there was no guarantee that the effects of the program would be limited to this year. Business leaders reacted with apprehension to the prospect of obligatory blackouts. Most defended a policy of separate reduction goals for each=20 industrial sector, sparing industries that depend heavily on electricity. The S?o Paul= o=20 State Federation of Industries (Fiesp) said that sectors who are major consumers = of energy such as steel should be exempted from any rationing. While details were lacking in the government=01,s plan, officials said that= the administration of the energy cuts would be placed in the hands of local=20 utilities which would determine the locations and schedules for daily blackouts.=20 According to national energy secretary Afonso Henriques, a 20% reduction in consumpti= on would amount to a cut of six hours a day. 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 05/09/2001=20 04:00:13 PM 
When do we want to get together to call Seabron w/  feedback? 
Jim/Rick/Steve: Please see the attached draft. I think I have everything in there we discussed. Sorry I this has been slower than planned -as I mentioned before I have been facing a family medical problem. I will be out of the office for much of the next two days. I can be reached at (617) 513-5904 (cellphone) or via email. I should be back in the office full-time from Thursday a.m. Cheers Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-04-23 SA Draft policy paper for review.doc 
What do you think? 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
FYI 
MEMORANDUM TO: Regulatory Affairs Committee Power Marketers Working Group FROM: Joe Hartsoe, Regulatory Affairs Committee Chair Bob Reilley, Power Marketers Working Group Chair Julie Simon, Vice President of Policy Mark Bennett, Senior Manager of Policy Erin Perrigo, Manager of Policy DATE: April 27, 2001 RE: California Order Proxy Price Calculation We have had an initial opportunity to review FERC's Order Establishing Prospective Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the California Wholesale Electric Markets and Establishing an Investigation of Public Utility Rates in Wholesale Western Energy Markets, and will provide a more detailed summary early next week. However, questions have arisen as to the calculation of the proxy price when a stage 1, 2 or 3 emergency is called.  In initial discussions with FERC staff, we have determined that the price mitigation will work as follows: For the following day, the ISO will publish at 8 a.m. an average of the daily prices published in Gas Daily for all California delivery points, as well as emissions costs.  The emissions costs will be calculated by the ISO using the Cantor Fitzgerald Environmental Brokerage Service.  The marginal unit will then be determined via the single price auction in the hour, and the ISO will then take the previously submitted and confidential heat rate data and multiply it by the posted average gas price and emissions costs for that hour to determine the market clearing price.  The ISO will not be calculating an estimated market-clearing price in advance. 
FYI- Seabron, as most of you know, is a consultant for us... his thoughts on FERC price cap order. 
I agree- it's not clear to me whether Cal. squares off with the feds on the RTO issue. All in all , a bad order that will only worsen the situation, not improve things( I'm saying that w/o benefit of order which is'nt out yet. Any thoughts? ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 04/26/2001 02:14:35 PM 
Rick: Sorry I missed your call. I had just popped out for a coffee. I'll just wait until next week before proceeding, after I get some comments from you guys. I should pretty much be around all next week so you can catch me whenever. I suppose you have been following the FERC California decision pretty closely. How CA gets integrated into a new RTO appears to be the key question. I would be surprised if RTO West even wants them in, given the credit risk issues, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
Here are some initial reactions and questions to the CAISO market stabilization plan, which is attached. Give me or Sue Mara your comments and then we can turn it into message points for  media / advocacy folks. In addition to reviewing the plan, I listened in to part of a stakeholder call that occured Friday 10 a.m. PST. DRAFT MESSAGE POINTS: With limited exceptions, the plan does nothing to increase supply or decrease 
FYI 
Rick, Thanks for the message. Sorry for not getting back to you before. Easter is a holiday in Venezuela and we got two days off. I am certainly involved in the domestic portion of the project, lobbying and educating Venezuelan authorities on its benefits in particular, and the benefits of an open and transparent market in general. I am working closely with Emilio Vicens and Guido Caranti who are leading the development of the project. The three of us have written extensive comments to regulations, have met on several opportunities with the regulator and with the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), making significant progress on this front, such as allowing to create a working group to study the project in detail. The actual creation is still pending, but we will bring this issue during a meeting scheduled this week. Politics surrounding this project are complicated. PDVSA has traditionally imposed its views on MEM, who rubberstamped all its decisions. With the Chavez Administration, things have changed dramatically, almost paralizing every PDVSA initiative. Since PDVSA is the one that really needs to obtain the permit to supply the gas, PDVSA was ""in charge"" of dealing with MEM. Given this environment, and once the commercial terms with PDVSA were in place, Enron decided (of course, with PDVSA's approval) to be proactive, starting a demonstration tour of the project to capture MEM's and the regulator's interests. Moreover, the initiative to involve the USG started with a conversation that Joe Hillings and I had during the GA meeting at the Woodlands. He requested a one pager summarizing the project to be presented to the USG for its inclusion in Bush's agenda, during the meeting that Chavez and Bush would have during the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas Summit in Canada this month. Lisa Yoho got involved later, and then Tom Briggs and his DC team. I participated in the drafting of a previous document to the one you attached. The US embassy has been informed, but perhaps kept on the side because we are affraid that its involvement might backfire. The relationsahip between the USG and Venezuela have been antagonistic due to OPEC's policies, and the political leftist leaning of the Chavez Administration. We are selling this project as a Venezuelan project, that will advance Venezuelan interests (more than US interests), and so far has worked. I don't mean that the effort to include this project in Bush's agenda will have the same fate, because the US Embassy deals at lower levels and the message doesn't get to Chavez, who is the real sponsor of the project. Lower levels, except people at PDVSA-Gas, are in a neutral to slight opposition stance (recent changes in MEM and PDVSA might have aligned these interests). I hope this background info helped understand the dynamics associated with the Jose LNG project. Please feel free to let me know if you need additional information. My best regards, ALF Richard Shapiro 04/12/2001 11:01 AM 
How involved are you on this? 
Please find attached a brief outline of the Jose LNG project. Eric will call later this afternoon to discuss. Thanks, Jonathan 
I still think an additional organizational announcement is necessary- I can= =20 explain further when you so desire. Thanks. 
Lauren, Mr. Shapiro has updated his presentation.  Can you make sure that this version is available to him for Monday's meeting?  Also, will his presentation be saved on a computer for his use or does he need to have it on a ""CD/diskette""? Thanks gngr 713-853-7751 
I think these are quite good...the missing piece, I would argue, that we need to include is a talking point on the need for FERC to focus significant resources on the identification and elimination of market power in electricity markets and the need to encourage the development of distributed generation and more effective demand - side response mechanisms , partly in response to market power concerns. This is a huge issue in  getting wholesale electricity markets to work effectively, i.e; to create discernable  consumer welfare benefits.... and we ( Enron ) need to talk about this this issue and concern and talk about it frequently and w/ the same passion we talk about the need for open markets. Linda Robertson 04/04/2001 12:09 PM 
Steve, per our conversation yesterday in Houston, what do you think of these TPs?  To be used by both Ken and Jeff in conversations and meetings with the Bush Administration. - Skilling Talking Points.doc 
These were the only articles w/ polling info on rate increases that Ann could find.  I don't think the Chronicle has done an independent poll. 
Here's ad campaign that I found through Olivia( Davis's person in D.C.) ....if this is it , not so bad. 
Congrats!! Ray Alvarez 03/22/2001 04:29 PM 
Rick, I heard from my Bolivia regulatory team that the supreme decree is a reality and that it is very positive- including full recovery of the $100MM gas deferred account that we were hanging out on.  I will provide more details as soon as I receive them.  Ray 
Good news. Sarah Novosel@ECT 05/01/2000 10:39 AM 
Rick and Joe: Please see the email below from our DOJ counsel at V&E.  Hopefully the DOJ matter will be settled by mid-week.  I'll keep you both posted. Sarah ""Imus, Neil W."" <nimus@velaw.com> on 05/01/2000 09:54:44 AM 
Ann, Sarah, Jay and Adam: I spoke with Brian Mohr at Skadden this morning.  He said that when he spoke to Jade at the end of last week about her investigation, she said that her recommendation had gone up the line to the front office, that she did not need any additional information and that unless her superiors wanted additional information, that she did not expect to need anything more from us. I think this means that Jade will likely just let the 30 day waiting period expire unless someone up the line from her raises questions or issues (which it doesn't seem as if she expects).  Furthering this interpretation is that fact that, according to Brian, Jade is out of the office this week, so it would be difficult for her to begin drafting a second request. Brian said he is supposed to talk to Jade on a conference call later today about another matter, and he will see if she will provide any more definitive information.  However, assuming she just lets the HSR waiting period expire, we will be cleared to close (from an antitrust perspective) at midnight on May 3rd. Neil Neil W. Imus Vinson & Elkins  L.L.P. 1455 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. #700 Washington, D.C. 20004-1008 Phone: 202-639-6675 Fax: 202-639-6604 e-mail: nimus@velaw.com 
Can we review over weekend- I'll ask Maureen to schedule an hour for the 3 of us on Monday. 
Please see attached. We have tried to develop five basic market objectives, show why these critical given Enron's strategic position, and describe some of the market attributes that follow from the positions. I think these attributes will lead directly to (at least our) proposed ""ideal"" RTO structure. We can cut down some of the background discussion if you wish to circulate it to any other audiences within the company. But I wanted you guys to have a sense of where we are coming from with respect to some of the conclusions. Unless instructed otherwise I will continue to circulate documents only to the two of you, and you can forward to others as you see fit. Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com - 01-03-01 SA Draft paper on market objectives and attributes.doc 
Dan , if he brings this one home, will be a hero. 
Admittedly , ERCOT was handled poorly from a pleading submission perspective, but there is a legitimate discussion going on within the company that , at the very least,  will result in a more flexible approach to market structure and , perhaps( this is my preference) will result in a sharpening and refocusing of our positions that will acknowledge the necessity for an ""LMP""-like approach in real-time to achieve sufficient depth of liquidity.( with a keen focus on developing forward markets in transmission rights). Airing our differences and doubts externally creates absolutely no benefit - At the end of the day, we're here ( no matter where we end up on this issue) to enhance the company's commercial success, not to win an ideological battle. I understand and value the passion people in our group bring to their work... I don't want to lose that ""fire"", but merely want to assure that it is properly directed. We will resolve this issue shortly and am quite  sure we will all work hard to ensure uniformity of message at that time. Susan J Mara 02/21/2001 06:15 PM 
Ziad   and Elena and Diane and Alex, It is not exactly true -- but I can see how people got that idea.  Enron has decided to withdraw the filings we made in ERCOT. Our position on the ERCOT market structure is being reviewed. Enron continually goes through a process of reviewing its policies to make sure they are consistent with our business needs.  I can tell you that there are some strong supporters of Hogan's policies INSIDE Enron now and these supporters are finding an ear. Currently, we are reviewing the positions we are taking on market structure in ERCOT and the east.  We have to ensure we are practical -- from a business point of view -- and not being just religious about our views.  Probably the number one concern of the business people is the ability to have a deep, liquid market for trading.  I believe that much of the discussion has focused on the ways in which we can achieve such a market. After our review of ERCOT, Enron may indeed support a PJM-like structure for the real-time market, but the filings we make will likely not imply that this approach be implemented everywhere.  I expect that we will be free to support different approaches in different parts of the country, depending on the evolution of the markets in each location. What does this mean for our position in California?  So far, nothing.  We are standing firm on our California position, supporting the ISO and stakeholder-approved approach for congestion management, and do not have any plans to make new proposals. Further, we have the support of the Traders on this. Please feel free to call with any concerns. Believe me, I'm having just as hard of a time working through this as you all are. Sue Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 ""Alaywan, Ziad"" <ZAlaywan@caiso.com> 02/21/2001 01:12 PM 
Rick, thought you might enjoy this alternative theory on the root cause of Cal's problem.  Ray 
Feb. 2, 2001, 8:06PM The rest of us should tell California to go fly a kite By DAVE BARRY When we consider the serious electricity shortage in California, our reaction, as concerned Americans, is: Ha ha! No, seriously, we are alarmed. Because history teaches us that whatever happens to California -- smog, road rage, tofu, coffee that is mainly air, cell  phones, the belief that abdominal muscles are attractive, Shirley MacLaine,  people taking in-line skating seriously, grandmothers sporting new and  flagrantly inappropriate bosoms -- eventually happens to the rest of the nation.  Thus it is vital that we analyze the California electricity shortage and see if  we can develop a workable solution before we become bored and change the  subject. Our first question is: What, exactly, is electricity? When we look in our Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, we see that ""electricity"" is defined  as a ""class of physical phenomena resulting from the existence of charge  and from the interaction of charges."" What does this mean, in lay-person's  terms? It means that whoever wrote the Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia is a big, fat dope. Because we know from our junior-high-school science training that electricity is actually a fast-moving herd of electrons, which are tiny one-celled animals that can survive in almost any environment except inside a  double-A battery, where they die within minutes. Electrons are formed when clouds rub together and become excited. This was proved in the famous experiment wherein Benjamin Franklin flew a kite during a  thunderstorm and was almost killed. Encouraged by this success, Franklin went on  to conduct many more electrical experiments, including rolling a hoop in a  thunderstorm, playing hopscotch in a thunderstorm and doing somersaults in a  thunderstorm. Finally one night he was caught wearing only a bonnet and playing Mister Pooter Rides the Pony in a thunderstorm, leaving the authorities with no choice  but to arrest him and make him ambassador to France.  Nevertheless, Franklin had proved an important scientific point, which is  that electricity originates inside clouds. There it forms into lightning, which  is attracted to the earth by golfers. After entering the ground, the electricity hardens into coal, which, when 
EPSA's california story. 
- Updated California The Real Story 1-01.doc 
On balance , this is a good thing- not great, but Barbara and Roy did a great job to get the improvements they got- also, the seccuritization is good for project motown assets. 
Late yesterday evening the Michigan House of Representatives approved the package of electric restructuring bills, namely SB937 (vote of 72 -35) and SB1253 (vote of 73 - 35).  The bills now go back to the Senate where the changes made by the House are expected to be agreed to.  If this occurs, which we expect it will, the bill will be signed by the Governor this weekend and take immediate effect. Attached is an initial summary of SB937 as passed by the House.  The House accepted approximately 7 amendments on the floor.  This summary may be updated should these amendments have any real impact on the bill for Enron. Our initial assessment is that they do not - Eric Schneidewind and I are meeting first thing Thursday morning to review them carefully.  We will keep you updated. Finally, regarding the issue of being subject to acquiring local franchises as a condition of doing business in municipalities in Michigan:  You will recall that we had language inserted into the bill in the Senate which declared that Alternative Electric Suppliers would not be considered public utilities.  This language would have deleted the requirement that we obtain local franchises.  However, the Governor had made a deal with the MI Municipal League that this issue would not be resolved in this legislation. (This deal I believe was struck in the context of various other issues pending among the legislature, governor and municipal league).  Late yesterday, Senate Leader DeGrow came out in support of an amendment to exclude schools (elementary, secondary, community colleges, universities, etc...) from the local franchise for purposes of aggregation -- thus upsetting the status quo which had been agreed to by the Governor and Municipal League.  Senator DeGrow was firm in his support and said that in order for the Senate to agree to House changes, this language had to be added.  Well, the language was not added in the House --- due to overall confusion.  So, we are going to talk with Senator DeGrow this morning to urge him to go forward with the Senate agreeing to the House changes in the bill and to consider the schools amendment in the context of exempting all Alternative Electric Suppliers from local franchise requirements.  A bill or amendment to this effect can be handled during the September session. Customer groups are also going to do the same thing.  The Govenror supports our position on this issue and we believe we have the momentum to get this done when the legislature comes back in September. Roy and I are available today if you have any questions.  You can reach Roy at 630-654-6472. I can be reached this morning at 614-306-4359 and this afternoon at 614-760-7472. 
Rick - In case you didn't receive this, here is the e-mail that Cynthia sent yesterday about next week's Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing.  It will be held on Wednesday, January 31 at 9:30 a.m. in 216 Hart Senate Office Building and will most likely continue for a second day, to be determined.  Let us know if you need anything else.  Thanks. Cynthia Sandherr 01/25/2001 05:30 PM 
Steve:  I ran into Senate Energy Committee Chief of Staff Andrew Lundquist who advised me that Chairman Murkowski (R-AK) sent a letter directly to Ken Lay asking him or his designee (you?)( Jeff Skilling?)  to testify at the January 31st Senate Energy Committee hearing on the California situation.  As reported earlier, Secretary Abraham and FERC Chairman Hebert will be testifying at the beginning of the hearing.  Enron would be asked to join a panel of eight which includes invited witnesses of:  SoCalEd, PG&E, SMUD, LAWDP, Calpine, Williams and Reliant.  Should Enron accept, EPSA would have four witnesses on this panel of eight. When I spoke to Andrew, he said the Committee was more interested in hearing Enron's testimony on markets, long term contracts, risk management, etc. than the generation and new power plant construction viewpoints likely to be offered by the other EPSA witnesses.  He believes this will complement what the Administration witnesses will say.  Believe it or not, recently, Chairman Murkowski has made some progress in moving towards supporting Enron's open access electricity  transmission position, although his draft legislation is silent on this issue.  Our testimony on the importance of open access for reliability purposes (""reliability"" would be the tie-in to discuss this issue in relation to the draft legislation) plus on the need for consistency with the other existing open access provisions in the Murkowski draft bill  could provide an excellent platform for Enron to inform many Congressional members about California, markets and deregulation needs (the Murkowski draft bill was sent to you earlier and is to be introduced February 5th or 6th.) Steve, earlier you had asked for the opportunity to do a Hill staff briefing on California to reach a larger audience with our messages.  I believe this would provide an excellent opportunity to achieve this goal.  If you would like, either at a breakfast prior to or in the afternoon after, we could also do a Press Club briefing and/or arrange to have a room on the Hill (perhaps on the House side) to invite staffers for additional briefings (and include the other EPSA witnesses.) In the alternative, if this hearing date does not work in your schedule,  the other EPSA witnesses could make some of our points for us.  However, these points might be somewhat diluted given these witnesses' other priorities.  As always, you (Jeff and Ken) make a fabulous witness. Please advise.  (This hearing will be covered extensively by the Press.) 
? ? ? - Final pt1.doc - Final pt2.doc 
Rich Shapiro requested this chart for Ken Lay. Thanks for Kristian for doing the heavy lifting. I have spruced up the chart a bit and turned into a Power Point chart.  Open the .xls file only if you want to modify the source data. Alan Comnes 
Attached is list for Bush's transition advisory  teams- notably, we're absent from all but Commerce(Sandherr) and Energy(Lay). 
Good news from the Southern Cone. 
Further to my e-mail yesterday, advising of the approval of the GasBol - Transborder Firm Transportation Contract for service to Cuiaba, I have received letters today from the Superintendent APPROVING the following firm transportation service contracts: GTB-Transborder Transredes-Transborder Transredes-Chaco Transredes-Maxus The approval of the Transborder contracts will be effective 10 days after we file an official translation of these contracts. The approval of the remaining contracts will be effective 10 days after we file a signed original of such contracts. Congratulations to all involved!  Ray 
See my self-evaluation on PEP system. Thanks Maureen McVicker 12/22/2000 03:47 PM 
Steve Kean would like each of you to send him a list of your accomplishments for 2000. If you have already provided the list to Steve, please disregard this email. DUE DATE:  Close of business, Thurs., Jan. 4 
Please find attached a memo and powerpoint  presentation that memorializes the above-refrenced meeting. I would ask that Kevin and Tim forward this on to everyone in their group who should see it- we did'nt have a good list of names. Thanks and feel ree to call if you have any questions. 
Electric Utility Industry 
Final version. 
Electric Utility Industry FYI 
Electric Utility Industry Joe, Linda Robertson and Joe Hartsoe of Enron asked me to forward to you the attached comments and answers of Enron on the subject document.  It is in WordPerfect 8.  If you need to have it converted to another format, please let me know: 202-828-5851.  Hope all is well and congratulations on landing a position with LeBoeuf. Dan - 0135652.01 
Congrats! Great job for you and everyone else in D.C.( & Houston)  office that assisted. Thanks. Chris Long 12/16/2000 10:16 AM 
Congress Passes the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 Late Friday afternoon, December 15, Congress passed the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.  The purpose of the Act is to eliminate unnecessary regulation of commodity futures exchanges and other entities falling within the  coverage of the Commodities Exchange Act (""CEA"") and the provide legal certainty with regard to certain futures and derivatives transactions.  By enacting such changes, Congress intends to promote product innovation and to enhance the competitive position of US financial markets. Certain provisions of the Act open the door for Enron's further product innovation and growth.  Specifically, the Act provides important legal certainty for energy and other transactions occuring both on an over-the-counter (OTC) bilateral basis and on multilateral electronic trading platforms.  Enron was a leading advocate of passage of this legislation. Bilateral Transactions Under the Act, bilateral transactions in all commodities (other than agriculture commodities) that do not occur on trading facility (i.e. not on a multi-party exchange) are exempt from most provisions of the CEA as long as the transactions are entered solely between ""eligible contract participants""(i.e. persons and certain legal entities satisfying capital thresholds and other requirements under the Act).  This provision essentially codifies and expands existing CFTC exemptions for swaps and forward contracts, thereby eliminating a degree of legal ambiguity that has frustrated product innovation and growth. Multilateral Transactions In addition, the Act creates a broad exemption for any agreement, contract or transaction in commodities (other than agriculture commodities) so long as they the transactions are between ""eligible commercial participants"", are entered into on a ""principle-to-principle basis"" and that take place on a multi-party ""electronic facility"".  This exemption could facilitate expansion of EnronOnline to allow for multi-party transactions, however certain legal requirements will have to be met. Other Transactions The Act also creates a broad exclusion for a number of commodities that are of interest to Enron, including ""credit risk measure"" commodities and weather derivatives .  Again, the derivative transaction exclusion will have to meet certain legal thresholds. This legislation has been over six years in the making and the collective support of many Enron employees has been crucial.  Thank you to all that have contributed to the passage on this important legislation.  We will have a more through legal summary of this legislation in the near future. Do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 466- 9158 of Mark Taylor at (713) 853-7459 with any questions. 
Rich, I am on a leave from LeBoeuf and working on the Transition Team as part of the Energy Policy Group for the next few weeks.  We request Enron's views on electricity issues.  I regret the short notice and tight deadline for your response (Monday COB), but time is short and there is a need to flesh out Administration positions and prepare nominees.  Please consider responding to the questions as an attachment to your response, which should use the requested template.  Until we move in the D.C. Transition office on Monday or so, the best way to reach me is cell phone (202-255-6803) or email. Regards. 
I think the first paragraph is gratuitous and constitutes bad faith. Paul Kaufman@ECT 07/10/2000 05:07 PM 
We're communicating our objections to the first paragraph in writing to Sierra.   I'll try again to get hold of Oldham and Ponn. Page me if you need me.  I'm in the office all afternoon. 
Great job! Chris Long@ENRON 07/27/2000 04:34 PM 
Today we were successful in killing an amendment that was offered by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House Banking Committee during its markup of the Commodities Future Modernization Act of 2000.  This amendment would have stricken language that provided an exclusion from CFTC jurisdiction for all non-agriculture transactions (energy, metals, broadband).  The amendment failed, largely due to pressure from Enron, by a vote of 20-12.  Rep. Ken Bensten (D-TX) joined Chairman Leach in speaking against the amendment. In more positive movement, yesterday the House Commerce Committee passed its version on the bill including a provision that exempts metal trading multilateral trading facilities from CFTC jurisdiction. Congress goes into recess tomorrow and we will have a better sense on how the Rules Committee plans to reconcile differences between the versions of the bill later this week.  The Senate is still the unknown. Call me at any question - Chris 
Bradley: We have learned that two amendments will be offered tomorrow my Rep. Maloney: #1  - Strikes lines 15-25 from page 41 and the entire page 42 (these are the sections of HR 4541 as reported out of the Ag. Committee which address the exemption for all most non-agriculture commodities trade on an electronic facility. #2  - Request a comprehensive study on the President's working group, DOE, and FERC. We strongly oppose amendment #1 which intends to more heavily regulate the energy derivatives industry.  Please have Rep. Bentsen voice his opposition to this amendment.  My guess is that amendment #2 should and will be ruled non-germane, however this is not a compromise we would support. Thanks - Chris (202) 466-9158 ""Edgell, Bradley"" <Bradley.Edgell@mail.house.gov> on 07/26/2000 05:31:08 PM 
Chris, I will look this over and get back to you. > ---------- 
Here  are the slides on PGE 
FYI 
Mitch, Don't kill me, just call. Attached are  revised slides, revised as follows: 1. Cover page adds ""OPUC"" and changes the date to today's date 2. The first bullet under the FERC timeline -- added statement that FERC order is more likely to be issued towards the end of the year 3. Under Additional Information Required -- included statement that the delivered price test on the Alturas Line should include various buyback options for Sierra from its divested generators 4. Under Issues to be Resolved -- consolidated three bullets into two discussing the potential impact California plays  on FERC's action on the merger 5. Deleted the bullet under the SEC slide stating that the SEC could begin considering the application before FERC  issues its final order -- we could not verify this with Joanne, and Sam Behrends said he thinks the SEC is unlikely to act on the application (due to workload) before FERC issues its order. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
FYI 
California) 
California) Rick, Here are the documents that Peter has prepared for Mark Frevert. Nailia 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
California) Forwarding these to you (you received second from Pamela but not the first) in anticipation of our conf. call tomorrow about Ken's speech in Majorca on July 7. 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
Rick As per your request, see attached summary regarding our activities in Brasil from Jan to April. Unfortunately we couldn't sent to you before due to a lot problems we are facing here. Thanks Sergio Assad 
This is to inform you the recent approval of the below commented rules in Argentina. If the economic and political environment gets calmer, these rules will be an important step in the power deregulation process an will allow us to reach some of the goals set for the regulatory group for this year. Goal 1- Eliminate or Increase fuel declaration caps: there will not be more fuel declarations but price declarations (Section 1, Resolution 135). The rules do not mention any cap for price declarations. Goal 2 - Daily fuel declaration: The 6 month fuel declaration was replaced by a daily price declaration (Section 1, Resolution 135). Goal 3 - Reduce or eliminate the obligation to physically back up agreements with end users or LDCs: According to the interpretation of AGEERA (Gencos Association) we would have been gotten also this objective and marketers may already buy or sell spot as long as the contract with the customer does not have supply guarantee (Section 5, Resolution 135). It is not clear in the rule wich is the condition for marketers to buy or sell spot. Now the Secretariat of Energy must issue its own Resolution to amend the technical Procedures in line with these rules. From the text of Resolution 135 (sections 3 c, 5 and considerations) there would be a good probability to reach other two goals through the Secretariat of Energy rule: Reduce minimum term for Output & Demand Marketing Agreements to one month Eliminate or reduce to 1 MW the threshold for Output Marketing Agreements Amr and I are asisting Buenos Aires Ofice to analize the new rules to eventually submit comments to the Secretariat of Energy. Attached is the document with the regulatory goals. Regards Guillermo 
In an attempt to further reduce State intervention in the power market, on June 19, the Executive Branch issued Decree 804/01 which completes the deregulation process of the power industry initiated in 1992, and amends Electricity Law 24.065.  On June 26 the Minister of Infrastructure issued Resolution 135/01 setting forth  the guidelines for the future regulation of the Decree. The Secretariat of Energy's resolution that will regulate the Decree will be effective as from September 1, 2001. All agents of the electric sector will be invited to comment the terms of regulatory decree, although such comments will be used for informational purposes and will not bind the Secretariat of Energy to make any changes whatsoever to its original document. Although Decree No 804/01 is effective as from today, there are doubts in the industry as to whether it will be abolished in the future by Congress.  The reason for this uncertainty is that such Decree was issued within the framework of the Competitivity Law, by which Congress delegated to the Executive Branch its  powers to legislate  specifically on changes required to transform the economy.  Although this Decree and the changes it fosters indirectly affect the economy, since the law it amends is not purely ""economical"", it may be questioned.  There is no term within which Congress may exercise this right. Please find a summary of the relevant changes below. Generators Remuneration: Forward Market: freely negotiated Spot Market:  only payment of ""hourly spot price"" at each node. Hourly Spot Price: determined by price offers based on demand and transportation constraints Daily Declarations The day before the daily dispatch, each Generator shall: declare its price offers for each  peak, shoulder and valley hour at its node; declare its maximum operating limits and minimum available capacity; offer all of its available capacity. 
Luiz. Thank you for your note.  We are still in the boxing ring!. The first round was won but we still have some more rounds to go. Next week is the consent, provably in two weeks we will discuss the regulatory obstacles.. Jose 
Topic I -- Amendment 4 We spent the morning perfecting Aditivo 4 with Furnas, to cover the situation where the commissioning plan did not go as scheduled. It was signed early afternoon and sent to Eletrobras. The Eletrobras Diretoria had not followed this issue closely and need legal clearance. Furnas and the Ministry (Perazzo) called to give it priority. Late at night we received word that the ""parecer"" (opinion) was ready and that it the Anex would  signed by Eletrobras next Monday and entered into their Board meeting next Tuesday. Petrobras sent us the letter we asked but took out of their version a key word ""only"". ""Only"" refers that they will not go after us for non-payment if Furnas does not pay. In the letter they also stated that they will commence the loading operation -- at their own risk - Saturday. This was requested by Perazzo to save logistical time because it takes three days to get to Cuiaba from the refinery. [Advised Laine of the situation to check Monday how many trucks were loaded and  in transit] We contacted Perazzo through Sergio Assad to get his word that there would not be a last minute hitch; otherwise, we may have to refuse to take the diesel and would create a BIG PR problem for all. Topic III - Consent Package (Opinions, Aditivo, Consent) Furnas came in with the list of issues they wanted to discuss. I instead insisted that we treat this meeting as a continuation of the MME meeting and follow the Agenda  by looking at the Consent document package -- actually go over the text -  that they find objectionable, and,  if it the text had a direct link with any of their issues, we would discuss and examine the relative positions. What they told me is what they have told me before, that some of the issues have nothing to do with the Consent but they want it as a condition to agree to the package. Which is fine to me, because it will make it clear to the government what we have been saying --- they want to change the deal. In Furnas' defense, I need to add that they feel they have been handed a bad contract  and they want regulatory relief, which it has been granted, on a case-by-case basis, in other deals. So part of their strategy is to force MME, or Aneel to provide some tariff relief. I asked them to list out  the key issues with the Consent-  Old-- a) the 90 days additional time (Furnas), b) The guarantee substitution at the time of privatization, c) the lenders involvement on contract changes ""we do not want to go to Washington to negotiate"" - Newer - d) giving up their right to ask Aneel to ""homologar"", ratify; rather than ""registrar"" contract changes [big risk for us] . I believe the have more direct issues. We go back to Rio Monday (another holiday down the drain) ..and Tuesday to complete the list -- Topic II -- Regulatory conflicts Jose 
Here is the revised presentation. 
2 e-mails attached 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
Mark, Your site is finally activated. Real interesting. Worth a look Link to the DWR Contracts. http://www.sco.ca.gov/power_page/contract_info.htm Ban An interesting article too: Connell: Power cost twice Davis' figure July 6, 2001 By JOHN HOWARD The Orange County Register SACRAMENTO -- The average cost of electricity purchased under $43 billion of worth of state contracts is actually more than double the amount reported by Gov. Gray Davis' administration, state Controller Kathleen Connell said Thursday. Connell said her staff's analysis put the per-megawatt average at $170, compared with $69 to $79 estimated by Davis. Connell stopped short of suggesting that the higher cost could drive another increase in rates, although consumer groups said the higher amount likely would require some future increase. The controller, who writes the state's checks, said her figures assume fixed prices for natural gas over the duration of the contracts, which range from a few months to 20 years. The administration, noting that nearly half its contracts are pegged to the fluctuating market price of natural gas, said costs on many of the contracts would decline over time. Consumer groups were skeptical of the administration's numbers. ""You could cut these numbers in various ways and make different averages, long-range or short-range contracts, peak power or nonpeak, and probably either average could be defended mathematically,"" said Nettie Hoge of The Utility Reform Network. ""We can't tell you whether it's $69 or $170 - the 
Please note, the revised matrix sent minutes ago has been revised once again.  Please utilize the ""3rd Revision"" (noted at bottom right hand corner of page) Critical Path Matrix which is attached to this e:mail. Thanks gngr 
Are you attending? This is a change- why? 
Enclosed is revised regulatory "" issues"" memo that  served as the basis for discussion at yesterday's regulatory  review  meeting--- the only outstanding issue , as I just communicated to Charles Still at Skadden, is confirmation of  the fact that there are no antitrust approvals required in South Korea relative to SK- that confirmation should be forthcoming from local counsel this evening.  Lisa- I assume you will see this gets to Bill Gathmann immediately so he can  forward on to regional general counsel for final sign-off. 
Leaving voicemail with two comments: 1 ) Demand buydown: establish participation threshold of 20 kw...residential inclusion is unnecessary and will draw additional fire........2) Eliminating undue discrimination: we should make clear that non-discrimination means all uses of transmission system subject to FERC's jurisdiction shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Thanks. 
At some point very soon, we need to talk about how the whole range of contacts that need to be made in D.C. will be made- Hillings does not know about the deal as far as I know. Let's talk before the end of the week. Thanks. 
Because this whole issue is important to of our projects -Gaza, Guatemala, I wanted you to have an idea of the strategies being considered. Nothing is definitive, they want to lay our the risks and approaches necessary to protect all projects and relationships. If you have any thoughts concerning the approach, let me know! I will keep you posted as things unfold. 
FYI.  Keith 
Take a look at attachment below for guidance in any discussion with Ristori= =20 next Wednesday re Bush energy policy statement and comparative aspects of E= C=20 green paper on sec. of supply. To remind you of what Loyola said on CNN=20 yesterday: - Agrees with need to re-evaluate role of nuclear plus future investment i= n=20 it . - Disagrees with weight given to supply side and indigenous sources,=20 compared with demand side and fuel diversity (also from external sources?) - Disagrees with exclusion of climate change considerations.=20 
Jan, please find a revised draft of the SoS paper following discussions wit= h Peter. I would be grateful if you could circulate it to the members of the electricity working group for comment by 30th April. Likewise could you als= o forward it to Ian Wood. (See attached file: efetsos.doc) Thanks Brian ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    DISCLAIMER    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This E-mail is private and confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. It is therefore only intended for the addressee(s). If you are not one of those persons you must not read, copy, store, disclose, use or distribute its contents. Please also contact the sender immediately and delete the original. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - efetsos.doc 
For your review: 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
I think this looks good and is more than sufficient. Thanks. 
Attached is a version of the Stanley statement which I have revised following our discussion with Glenn Leslie.  As I looked at it, I didn't think that any changes to the text were  required and that what was needed was an introductory note explaining the purpose and intended use of the statement. Let me know what you think and if you think any further changes are needed. Thanks, Aleck 
I hope this one is okay. Lisa. 
There appears to be a pattern forming.  The administration seems to make a= =20 scene just prior to large events (e.g., Davis' letters calling for wholesal= e=20 caps just prior to the ISO Board vote, and now this on the eve of the joint= =20 Assembly/Senate hearing scheduled for today). In other late-breaking news.  On the heels of this press conference, I=20 received late last evening from Loretta Lynch's chief of staff a copy of a= =20 proposed decision Lynch will release today reversing last Thursday's decisi= on=20 rejecting (0-5) retail price caps in San Diego.  The draft decision she=20 proposes would establish an ""interim"" retail rate cap only for SDG&E=20 residential and small commercial customers.  She proposes to use a ""balanci= ng=20 account"" to finance the cap.  Though it looks like the ""interim"" cap would= =20 extend through December 2003, there is one place in the decision that state= s=20 the cap should only extend through December 2000. ""Karen Edson"" <kedson@ns.net> on 08/09/2000 06:58:13 PM 
Governor Davis held a press conference today at which he accused ""out-of-state generators"" of price gouging and market manipulation.  He called on FERC to expedite their investigation of the market and to provide for consumer rebates if FERC cannot conclude that California prices are 
I think this looks good and is more than sufficient. Thanks. 
Attached is a version of the Stanley statement which I have revised following our discussion with Glenn Leslie.  As I looked at it, I didn't think that any changes to the text were  required and that what was needed was an introductory note explaining the purpose and intended use of the statement. Let me know what you think and if you think any further changes are needed. Thanks, Aleck 
I hope this one is okay. Lisa. 
Can't open- meeting w/ Breathitt went well .. still alot of work to do- will keep you  advised. Ralph Reed <ralph@censtrat.com> on 09/08/2000 12:14:30 PM 
Here's another good candidate for head of the DC office you guys may want to sit down with.  Elizabeth Stolpe headed the DC office for Champion Industries, is highly respected on the Hill and the political community, and got a golden parachute when International Paper bought Champion.  I have attached her resume.  (If you can't open this, email me to that effect and I'll fax this.) How goes it with Breathed? - Elizabeth Stolpe.max 
Rick, Below is the transcript of the story you asked about this morning.  I have a video copy of it as well that you can view upon your return.  Thanks, Ann 
BROADCAST TRANSCRIPT Video Monitoring Services of America, Inc. 10260 Westheimer Houston, TX 77042 (713) 789-1635 (713) 789-0980 (FAX) Date      September 07, 2000 Time      08:00 AM - 08:30 AM Station   CNN Headline News Location  Network Program   Headline News Jacque Reid, anchor: To save money, consumers are finding ways to cut down on costly electricity bills.  Greg Clarking reports on how to get better rates using the Internet. Greg Clarking reporting: Helene Baldizzone, a New York City artist, was growing increasingly concerned about rising electricity costs, so she signed up with start-up electricity retailer SmartEnergy.com. Helene Baldizzone (SmartEnergy.com Customer):  I thought, OK, well, let's try somebody else because the bills had been going up little by little every month with ConEdison.  So I thought, well, I have nothing to lose at this point. Clarking:  Baldizzone is happy with SmartEnergy where she has locked in a rate of 8.3 cents per kilowatt hour.  She was paying as much as 13.3 cents per kilowatt hour before switching.  SmartEnergy says its goal is to let consumers take advantage of the sometimes confusing options created by deregulation of the energy industry. Gautam Chandra (President/CEO, SmartEnergy.com):  What we are doing is taking that confusion away by being the agents for the customer in terms of looking at the best prices, locking in the best prices for them. Clarking:  SmartEnergy, currently available in New York City, will be available in all twenty-four deregulated states within the next few months. There are a number of electricity suppliers in each of the deregulated states and consumers can save a lot of money by doing a little research. Rick Cowles (Energyland.com):  Don't sit back and just hang in there and wait and see what's going to happen a year or two down the road because you're going to find that electric rates have definitely changed in a year or two and it may not be to your advantage. Clarking:  To find out what energy options are available in your area, you can call your state's public utility commission or click on to Energyland.com for a complete list of energy suppliers and their rates. Cowles:  Right now, consumers are kind of in a unique position where they do have the ability to go in and see some immediate savings. Baldizzone:  It's easy.  But I like especially saving the money.  It's better in my pocket. Clarking:  That's Your Money.  Greg Clarking, CNN, New York. # # # For a videocassette(TV) or audiocassette(radio) of this news segment contact your nearest VMS office Material supplied by Video Monitoring Services may only be used for internal review, analysis or research.  Any publication, re-broadcast or public display for profit is forbidden. 
Last Thursday, I made the first attached presentation to the FERC Staff at the power marketer's meeting on the FERC's investigation of the wholesale market in the West (and in particular California).  Ellen Wolf (of Tabors Caramanis) and I created this presentation building on previous presentations by Tim Belden and Dave Parquet.  In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: There isn't much FERC can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market.  We discouraged FERC from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the California and the rest of the West as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the Commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The IOUs have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity.  They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at ISO real time prices.  My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The Commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in Powerpoint.  When you do, you will find there are many ""hidden"" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to Staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (Scott Miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than Staff's previous meetings with the IOUs and the generators.  Based on the numerous phone calls I've been getting, the Staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that Tim sent to Scott Miller on Friday.  Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message.  On Friday, Tim talked to Scott and answered some additional questions.  Tim said that Enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory PX buying requirement and would like the IOUs to be able to buy from Enron Online.  He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . 
FYI 
I guess because of the way the message was sent to me, I cannot include text in return, but responding to your question of what does Joe's last comment mean, presumably, it is that on these issues of WTO, I am not competent to advise you on them.  Leaving that aside, I further suspect that he sees me as the bette noir of the WTO ESC effort.  Finally, you might talk to Tom Briggs.  I think Joe has stood Tom's position on its head.  Joe has argued that we need to be in the ESC, because other things we care about like financial services regulation and e-commerce will be implicated.  He says Tom argues that we must liberalise energy to realise these objectives.  As I understand Tom (and he can speak for himself), if we do not get energy services liberalised (and the exclusion of third-party access is tantamount to not getting energy services liberalised) then the make-weight arguments about e-commerce and financial services fall away, at least as props/arguments for continuing the ESC.    talk to you later today   mcs 
I had shared my note to you with Peter.  Thought you would find his reply comment of interest.  Peter and I are both very frustrated/disappointed (you probably knew that), but I think Joe knows it, too, which further explains his derogatory comment about us in London.  mcs 
Raggett intervention likely attributable to Exxon again. I warned Joe and Bob Fisher about their insidious influence in April when I went to Washington. Also at that time Bob, Chris and I talked in detail about how to get TPA onto agenda through a coda or ancillary agreement to basic service provision/ investment categorisation, as happened for telecom in GATS. Who took their eye off the ball? Mark Schroeder 10/24/2000 05:35 PM 
my note, and the attachment to which it refers, are self-explanatory, and have obviously made me very unhappy.  What a waste of time and money by Joe!   mcs 
Tom Briggs was good enough to forward to me a piece of correspondence that Joe Hillings apparently shared with him.  My lack of enthusiasm for our WTO initiative, I know, has hardly been masked, but, frankly, what is contained in the incoming letter, below, I find quite disconcerting.  I have argued that in our key markets, e.g., Europe, Japan, etc. (I am assuming we do not need it in the USA, even today) the WTO initiative, i.e., liberalisation of energy siervices, would be of little value by the time it was implemented.  I had, apparently mistakenly, at least assumed that liberalisation of energy siervices at a minimum meant third-party access to transmission networks.  If not, then what the heck are we doing in this fight.  BUT, as you will see from the incoming, below, when Paul Hennemeyer, of my team here in London, joined Joe and Bob Fisher in Geneva to do a presentation on liberalisation of energy services in WTO, it provoked a letter, to which Joe responded, saying that the US Energy Services Coalition has NEVER taken a position on thrid party access, and it is doubtful they could agree to such a position (Joe agreed, and said this was just an Enron company position!).  You can probably guess my position on this, but I thought I would forward this to you for your information, and, if warranted, follow up, as the conversations we have had have never led me to believe that either of you thought we were pursuing a WTO initiative which did NOT involve third party access.   thanks  mcs 
FYI 
I agree with David- we should work these issues into our discussion w/ Luntz on Friday. I think Haug captured the issues we have to grapple with better than we've been able to thus far. 
Steve, thanks for the helpful materials. However, if the experience in overseas deregulating electricity markets where price increases and spikes have occurred is any precedent, we will need to have some more down-to-earth responses to a some of the potentially inflammatory issues facing the politicians: 1. When the prices spike, who reaps the windfall? Who sells that most expensive 1% of the kwh? Is it a careful planner or a lucky speculator or market manipulator? Someone is making a bunch of money off the screwed up system. Who is it, and why is that OK? 2. We do not allow people to inflate water prices to consumers in times of drought, or food prices in times of hurricanes or floods. Even gasoline price increases in periods of high demand are within 20%-30% of the base, not 2,5,10 or 100 times the average like spot electric prices. The issue isn't whether the system is broken or not or how bad partial regulation is or how 
As I promised this morning at the executive committee meeting, below are some talking points for your use. Overall message:  the market is working, regulation is not. In California, peak demand rose by 10% over the last 4 years while new capacity grew by only 2%.  But, as you would expect, the market responded by proposing 8,000MW of new generation - - more than enough to offset the peak demand growth.  The regulatory process, at both the state and local level, has failed to site this new generation.  The problem is regulation, not deregulation. When San Diego customers began experiencing the effects of higher prices, Enron responded with a fixed price which would have shielded San Diego customers from price volatility and provided prices below their current summer levels (Enron's price was about $55/MWH).  After publication of Enron's offer, nine other companies made offers.  Again, the market responded where regulation failed.  San Diego has not accepted any of these offers because of regulatory/legislative restrictions on its ability to buy outside of the PX (i.e. the spot market). In markets where siting is easier, suppliers have moved to build additional generation.  Enron built 3 plants in response to the 1998 price spikes. Those plants were planned, sited and built in less that 12 months - - in time for the summer of 1999.  Where regulatory hurdles are lower, the market responds. The solution to current pricing and reliability issues is more competition not reregulation.  Policy makers should: Open the transmission grid so that power can get from where it is to where it is needed. Expedite interconnection of new generation. Expedite siting of new facilities. Give customers a choice, so that they have better access to demand side solutions. Also attached is a more detailed discussion of California, prepared by Jeff Dasovich of our San Francisco office. 
As the individual responsible within Enron Corp. for coordinating the analysis of regulatory transfer restriction issues in the above-referenced project, I wanted to give each of you a brief update, but more importantly, ask for your help in ensuring, as we move closer to the signing date, that we are fully coordinated on these issues and are prepared to act in a consistent and coordinated fashion across the regions as quickly as possible. Over the last several weeks, the regional general counsel offices, V&E (Bill Weiland), Skadden and myself have been talking to local counsel across the regions to make sure that we fully understand all of the regulatory transfer issues and that we also fully understand the implications of the regulatory transfer restrictions in the context of the ""ABC"" deal structure.  We have now largely completed that process and the conclusions reached during that process have been memorialized in various documents, including the ""ABC Matrix"" that many, if not all of you, have seen.  All that is remaining is confirmation on a South Korean competition agency issue and the completion of the analysis relative to the Wind assets in Europe regarding EU competition agency issues. Those two items should be completed by early next week.  We have also recently begun the process of preparing documents that will be necessary for the approval of the transfer of Elektro in Brazil...which brings me to the second issue, coordination and preparation. Having reached a critical juncture with the completition of virtually all of the regulatory analysis, the next step is to plan for the announcement of the transaction...more specifically, ensuring that regulatory/governmental communication assignments for both pre and post announcement are fully agreed upon and understood by all... and that the process of drafting the necessary requests for regulatory approval documents is agreed upon and begun as soon as possible.  To ensure that this all happens in a timely manner and with quality, I would like to request that one individual from each operating region and company be assigned as the point person so that I can have a single individual within each operating unit to go to that has the authority to put together the comprehensive regulatory transfer plan and the responsibility for assuring the execution of the plan, both during the periods of time leading up to signing and announcement and during the transition period leading up to closing.  I would respectfully ask that the names of these individuals be communicated to me by close of business Wednesday, August 16, 2000 to provide us sufficient time to address the work that lies before us.  I have taken the liberty of listing my suggestions for the responsible individuals (where I have suggestions) for the respective operating regions/companies, but these are only suggestions and I will defer to your choices.  Thank you for your assistance and if you have any questions, feel free to contact me at extension 33407 in Houston or by pager at 888-740-9949. Enron South America   Jose Bestard Enron Wind    Eric B. Newell India     Jane Wilson Apachi     Mike Dahlke 
OK Keith Miceli@ENRON 08/10/2000 06:04 PM 
Task Team Members:  Attached is Draft # 3 of the Summer Stakeholder letter. It incorporates changes recommended by Jim Bannantine and Rick Shapiro. Please send me your input by COB tomorrow, Friday, August 11, so I can finalize and forward to Dick.  Regards,  Keith 
I agree w/ chris's recommendation- you too? 
At his request, I met Lee Sachs, Assistant Treasury Secretary, who had requested the meeting after a brief conversation recently.  Lee said that senior-level negotiations led by Secretary Summers were initiated last week between the CFTC and SEC and that progress was being made on the single stock futures issue (the major issue postponing movement of the legislation). As you know, the House completed committee work on HR 4541 before it recessed.  The bill will now is pending before the Rules Committee where differences will be worked out between the three different Committee versions (Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking).  The Senate Agriculture Committee passed out the Senate version in July.  However, the bill is not moving quickly in the Senate due to Senator Phil Gramm's desire to see significant changes made to the legislation (not directly related to our energy language). Last week at the Republican Convention, I asked the Senator about the bill and he said they were working on it, but much needs to be changed for his support.  More telling perhaps, were Wendy Gramm's comments that she would rather the current bill die if a better bill can be passed next year. What this means is that we must, at the least, remove Senator Gramm's opposition to the bill to move the process and more importantly seek to gain his support of the legislation. Lee Sachs message was just that.  I told Lee that we shared his desire to move the legislation as long as it contains a full exclusion for all non-agriculture commodities (including metals).  He said that we would have a difficult time defending the metals provision politically. But, Lee said  ""we 
There appears to be a pattern forming.  The administration seems to make a= =20 scene just prior to large events (e.g., Davis' letters calling for wholesal= e=20 caps just prior to the ISO Board vote, and now this on the eve of the joint= =20 Assembly/Senate hearing scheduled for today). In other late-breaking news.  On the heels of this press conference, I=20 received late last evening from Loretta Lynch's chief of staff a copy of a= =20 proposed decision Lynch will release today reversing last Thursday's decisi= on=20 rejecting (0-5) retail price caps in San Diego.  The draft decision she=20 proposes would establish an ""interim"" retail rate cap only for SDG&E=20 residential and small commercial customers.  She proposes to use a ""balanci= ng=20 account"" to finance the cap.  Though it looks like the ""interim"" cap would= =20 extend through December 2003, there is one place in the decision that state= s=20 the cap should only extend through December 2000. ""Karen Edson"" <kedson@ns.net> on 08/09/2000 06:58:13 PM 
Governor Davis held a press conference today at which he accused ""out-of-state generators"" of price gouging and market manipulation.  He called on FERC to expedite their investigation of the market and to provide for consumer rebates if FERC cannot conclude that California prices are 
I think this looks good and is more than sufficient. Thanks. 
Attached is a version of the Stanley statement which I have revised following our discussion with Glenn Leslie.  As I looked at it, I didn't think that any changes to the text were  required and that what was needed was an introductory note explaining the purpose and intended use of the statement. Let me know what you think and if you think any further changes are needed. Thanks, Aleck 
I hope this one is okay. Lisa. 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
For your review: 
At some point very soon, we need to talk about how the whole range of contacts that need to be made in D.C. will be made- Hillings does not know about the deal as far as I know. Let's talk before the end of the week. Thanks. 
Because this whole issue is important to of our projects -Gaza, Guatemala, I wanted you to have an idea of the strategies being considered. Nothing is definitive, they want to lay our the risks and approaches necessary to protect all projects and relationships. If you have any thoughts concerning the approach, let me know! I will keep you posted as things unfold. 
FYI.  Keith 
Enclosed is revised regulatory "" issues"" memo that  served as the basis for discussion at yesterday's regulatory  review  meeting--- the only outstanding issue , as I just communicated to Charles Still at Skadden, is confirmation of  the fact that there are no antitrust approvals required in South Korea relative to SK- that confirmation should be forthcoming from local counsel this evening.  Lisa- I assume you will see this gets to Bill Gathmann immediately so he can  forward on to regional general counsel for final sign-off. 
Please note, the revised matrix sent minutes ago has been revised once again.  Please utilize the ""3rd Revision"" (noted at bottom right hand corner of page) Critical Path Matrix which is attached to this e:mail. Thanks gngr 
Mitch, Don't kill me, just call. Attached are  revised slides, revised as follows: 1. Cover page adds ""OPUC"" and changes the date to today's date 2. The first bullet under the FERC timeline -- added statement that FERC order is more likely to be issued towards the end of the year 3. Under Additional Information Required -- included statement that the delivered price test on the Alturas Line should include various buyback options for Sierra from its divested generators 4. Under Issues to be Resolved -- consolidated three bullets into two discussing the potential impact California plays  on FERC's action on the merger 5. Deleted the bullet under the SEC slide stating that the SEC could begin considering the application before FERC  issues its final order -- we could not verify this with Joanne, and Sam Behrends said he thinks the SEC is unlikely to act on the application (due to workload) before FERC issues its order. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
FYI 
Here  are the slides on PGE 
Great job! Chris Long@ENRON 07/27/2000 04:34 PM 
Today we were successful in killing an amendment that was offered by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House Banking Committee during its markup of the Commodities Future Modernization Act of 2000.  This amendment would have stricken language that provided an exclusion from CFTC jurisdiction for all non-agriculture transactions (energy, metals, broadband).  The amendment failed, largely due to pressure from Enron, by a vote of 20-12.  Rep. Ken Bensten (D-TX) joined Chairman Leach in speaking against the amendment. In more positive movement, yesterday the House Commerce Committee passed its version on the bill including a provision that exempts metal trading multilateral trading facilities from CFTC jurisdiction. Congress goes into recess tomorrow and we will have a better sense on how the Rules Committee plans to reconcile differences between the versions of the bill later this week.  The Senate is still the unknown. Call me at any question - Chris 
Bradley: We have learned that two amendments will be offered tomorrow my Rep. Maloney: #1  - Strikes lines 15-25 from page 41 and the entire page 42 (these are the sections of HR 4541 as reported out of the Ag. Committee which address the exemption for all most non-agriculture commodities trade on an electronic facility. #2  - Request a comprehensive study on the President's working group, DOE, and FERC. We strongly oppose amendment #1 which intends to more heavily regulate the energy derivatives industry.  Please have Rep. Bentsen voice his opposition to this amendment.  My guess is that amendment #2 should and will be ruled non-germane, however this is not a compromise we would support. Thanks - Chris (202) 466-9158 ""Edgell, Bradley"" <Bradley.Edgell@mail.house.gov> on 07/26/2000 05:31:08 PM 
Chris, I will look this over and get back to you. > ---------- 
On November 8, the Office of the Chairman, issued an important communicatio= n,=20 announcing significant organizational changes in Enron's worldwide=20 operations. The purpose of this memo is to share with you the decisions tha= t=20 are underway to restructure  Enron=01,s operations in South America.  The b= asic=20 organizational framework has been set.=20 As you know, Diomedes Christodoulou and Jim Bannantine will be assuming new= =20 responsibilities within Enron. Replacing them will be Orlando Gonzalez and= =20 Joe Kishkill, who will become the Co-Presidents of South America, reporting= =20 to Dave Delainey and John Lavorato.  They will share overall responsibility= ;=20 however, Orlando=01,s focus will be on direct sales origination,=20 commercial/government relationships and regulatory issues.  Joe=01,s focus = will=20 be on wholesale origination, financial and operating performance and overal= l=20 country management.  In addition, Orlando will continue as President and CE= O=20 of Elektro until its ultimate sale. The existing, large integrated asset base in South America (excluding=20 Elektro) will be managed and operated by Rebecca McDonald and Jim Hughes in= =20 Enron Global Assets, which is part of Enron Wholesale Services under Mark= =20 Frevert. Ultimately, there will be very close coordination in both Brazil a= nd=20 Argentina between Enron Americas and Enron Global Assets to ensure that our= =20 reputation in South America is protected, our asset positions are being=20 managed prudently and that commercial opportunities surrounding these asset= s=20 are pursued. The remaining natural gas and electrical commercial activities in South=20 America will be organized around the highly successful North American netwo= rk=20 business model.  This model employs people, market making, physical=20 commodities, capital and assets to provide reliable, flexible and high-valu= e=20 products to our customers.  It is people and intellectual capital based and= =20 enjoys high rates of return on invested capital. In the interest of pursuing this strategy, the following teams will report = to=20 Joe and Orlando: =20 The Commercial Origination team will be lead by Brett Wiggs.  The team will= =20 focus on covering South American markets, primarily Brazilian and Argentine= =20 natural gas and electricity, with the following goals: ? Generating new, innovative, reliable and high value products and services= =20 needed by the market by utilizing our commodity, asset and capital=20 capabilities; ? Providing those products and services across South America and across the= =20 value chain, including wholesale and retail, based upon the highest value= =20 opportunity; ? Finding structural value arbitrages in the South American market and move= =20 quickly to capitalize; ? Assisting the Risk Management and Trading organization in managing the=20 overall risk of the organization; ? Managing all new power and asset development opportunities in South Ameri= ca=20 consistent with this strategy, and ? Providing the Risk Management and Trading organization information and de= al=20 flow. The Commercial Origination team will consist of a diverse group of people w= ho=20 work as a single team which bring the required skills including commodity,= =20 capital, regulatory, asset, development, market, structuring, deal executio= n,=20 finance and country knowledge necessary to reach our goals.=20 The Trading and Risk Management team will be headed by Remi Collonges.  The= =20 team will continue to develop pricing information and manage the price book= =20 for the relevant energy markets in support of the wholesale and direct sale= s=20 efforts.  Additionally, the team will work toward implementation of activel= y=20 trading South American energy commodities.  This group will be responsible= =20 for managing Enron South America=01,s overall risk and will have a direct= =20 reporting relationship with John Lavorato in his role as head of the Americ= as=20 risk activities. The Argentine effort will be integrated into the overall South American=20 Commercial Origination and Trading and Risk Management groups; however, we= =20 will continue to maintain an Argentine office headed by Michael Guerriero. = =20 The goal of the reorganization is to create a flat team oriented organizati= on=20 that is very market and commercially focused.  The following support=20 functions will assist the overall business objectives of the commercial tea= m=20 and will report into Joe and Orlando, plus into their line functions in=20 Houston.  The overall goal is to ensure that the South American business=20 units have an adequate support organization to evaluate opportunities, as= =20 well as manage day-to-day business and risk.  Otherwise, the Houston=20 infrastructure will provide resources as needed to manage peak requirements= =20 in South America, not unlike other businesses in Enron Americas. These groups include: The Government Affairs team, which will be headed by Sergio Assad, will=20 manage the relationships with the relevant regulatory agencies as well as= =20 governmental ministries.  The primary regulatory goal will be to facilitate= ,=20 in the near term, substantive changes to the regulatory rules to allow a=20 functioning wholesale traded market in Brazil and Argentina. Sergio will=20 assume his responsibilities upon completion of the Elektro sale.  During th= is=20 interim period, Jose Bestard will continue to be in charge of the regulator= y=20 function.  Once Sergio makes the transition, he will also report to Rick=20 Shapiro in Enron Government Affairs. The Finance team will be headed by Britaldo Soares.  The team will manage t= he=20 interface with Enron Global Finance.  Britaldo will transition from his=20 current duties at Elektro upon completion of the Elektro sale.  Britaldo wi= ll=20 also report to Joe Deffner in Enron Global Finance.  Rob Gay will be=20 assisting Britaldo during the transition, while continuing his work on the= =20 Cuiaba project. The Legal team, which will be lead by Randy Young, as general counsel, and= =20 John Novak, as deputy general counsel, will manage South America=01,s legal= =20 requirements.  Randy and John will also report to Mark Haedicke in Enron=20 Wholesale Services - Legal Department. Miguel Padron will become Chief of Staff.  Human Resources, Information=20 Technology, Treasury, Accounting & Reporting, as well as Administration wil= l=20 report to Miguel.  This will bring focus to essential, but non-commercial= =20 functions, as well as more efficiently manage key matrix reporting=20 relationships with Enron.  Miguel will also report to David Oxley in Enron= =20 Wholesale Services =01) Human Resources and Wes Colwell in Enron Wholesale= =20 Services =01) Business Analysis and Reporting. These changes are consistent with Enron's evolving business strategy and=20 reflect our continuing commitment to grow the company by maximizing our=20 financial and intellectual capital.  However, in line with the new=20 organizational structure and the near term potential for business in the=20 region, further budget reductions will be necessary.  People directly=20 affected will be notified shortly. =20 Enron is committed to continue the successful implementation of its=20 businesses in South America.  We believe that as the markets develop, we ar= e=20 uniquely positioned to leverage Enron=01,s core capabilities and create=20 shareholder value.=20 
I think the first paragraph is gratuitous and constitutes bad faith. Paul Kaufman@ECT 07/10/2000 05:07 PM 
We're communicating our objections to the first paragraph in writing to Sierra.   I'll try again to get hold of Oldham and Ponn. Page me if you need me.  I'm in the office all afternoon. 
Please find attached a memo and powerpoint  presentation that memorializes the above-refrenced meeting. I would ask that Kevin and Tim forward this on to everyone in their group who should see it- we did'nt have a good list of names. Thanks and feel ree to call if you have any questions. 
Good news from the Southern Cone. 
Further to my e-mail yesterday, advising of the approval of the GasBol - Transborder Firm Transportation Contract for service to Cuiaba, I have received letters today from the Superintendent APPROVING the following firm transportation service contracts: GTB-Transborder Transredes-Transborder Transredes-Chaco Transredes-Maxus The approval of the Transborder contracts will be effective 10 days after we file an official translation of these contracts. The approval of the remaining contracts will be effective 10 days after we file a signed original of such contracts. Congratulations to all involved!  Ray 
On balance , this is a good thing- not great, but Barbara and Roy did a great job to get the improvements they got- also, the seccuritization is good for project motown assets. 
Late yesterday evening the Michigan House of Representatives approved the package of electric restructuring bills, namely SB937 (vote of 72 -35) and SB1253 (vote of 73 - 35).  The bills now go back to the Senate where the changes made by the House are expected to be agreed to.  If this occurs, which we expect it will, the bill will be signed by the Governor this weekend and take immediate effect. Attached is an initial summary of SB937 as passed by the House.  The House accepted approximately 7 amendments on the floor.  This summary may be updated should these amendments have any real impact on the bill for Enron. Our initial assessment is that they do not - Eric Schneidewind and I are meeting first thing Thursday morning to review them carefully.  We will keep you updated. Finally, regarding the issue of being subject to acquiring local franchises as a condition of doing business in municipalities in Michigan:  You will recall that we had language inserted into the bill in the Senate which declared that Alternative Electric Suppliers would not be considered public utilities.  This language would have deleted the requirement that we obtain local franchises.  However, the Governor had made a deal with the MI Municipal League that this issue would not be resolved in this legislation. (This deal I believe was struck in the context of various other issues pending among the legislature, governor and municipal league).  Late yesterday, Senate Leader DeGrow came out in support of an amendment to exclude schools (elementary, secondary, community colleges, universities, etc...) from the local franchise for purposes of aggregation -- thus upsetting the status quo which had been agreed to by the Governor and Municipal League.  Senator DeGrow was firm in his support and said that in order for the Senate to agree to House changes, this language had to be added.  Well, the language was not added in the House --- due to overall confusion.  So, we are going to talk with Senator DeGrow this morning to urge him to go forward with the Senate agreeing to the House changes in the bill and to consider the schools amendment in the context of exempting all Alternative Electric Suppliers from local franchise requirements.  A bill or amendment to this effect can be handled during the September session. Customer groups are also going to do the same thing.  The Govenror supports our position on this issue and we believe we have the momentum to get this done when the legislature comes back in September. Roy and I are available today if you have any questions.  You can reach Roy at 630-654-6472. I can be reached this morning at 614-306-4359 and this afternoon at 614-760-7472. 
Dan , if he brings this one home, will be a hero. 
Good news. Sarah Novosel@ECT 05/01/2000 10:39 AM 
Rick and Joe: Please see the email below from our DOJ counsel at V&E.  Hopefully the DOJ matter will be settled by mid-week.  I'll keep you both posted. Sarah ""Imus, Neil W."" <nimus@velaw.com> on 05/01/2000 09:54:44 AM 
Ann, Sarah, Jay and Adam: I spoke with Brian Mohr at Skadden this morning.  He said that when he spoke to Jade at the end of last week about her investigation, she said that her recommendation had gone up the line to the front office, that she did not need any additional information and that unless her superiors wanted additional information, that she did not expect to need anything more from us. I think this means that Jade will likely just let the 30 day waiting period expire unless someone up the line from her raises questions or issues (which it doesn't seem as if she expects).  Furthering this interpretation is that fact that, according to Brian, Jade is out of the office this week, so it would be difficult for her to begin drafting a second request. Brian said he is supposed to talk to Jade on a conference call later today about another matter, and he will see if she will provide any more definitive information.  However, assuming she just lets the HSR waiting period expire, we will be cleared to close (from an antitrust perspective) at midnight on May 3rd. Neil Neil W. Imus Vinson & Elkins  L.L.P. 1455 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. #700 Washington, D.C. 20004-1008 Phone: 202-639-6675 Fax: 202-639-6604 e-mail: nimus@velaw.com 
Hello everyone: Last evening there were several receptions in Sacramento which allowed us to chat with some interesting folks about the energy situation. Bob Foster said Edison is very close to declaring bankruptcy.  He said maybe it would be the best thing if the Federal court were involved anyway because he was not having much influence on policy discussions and legislative decisions. An hour and a half discussion with Steve Peace can be summarized as follows: 1.  He believes Enron has done a masterful job of manipulating the market. 2.  He believes it may not be too late for Enron, specifically Ken Lay, to use the Federal government to stabilize the market.  Lay's influence with Bush could set up a system with true competition (perhaps publicly-owned generation could be a competitor) and fair and just prices. 3.  Peace himself will not be a major player in energy solutions. He'll be in Puerta Vallarta with his wife for half of January to prove the point. 4.  He suggests having Jim Brulte, Senate Minority Leader and Bush campaigner, get involved to promote a proactive solution which includes Ken Lay and President Bush.  (I'm calling Brulte today to get a reaction) 5.  He believes there is a good chance that the Sempra, Edison and PG&E go into bankruptcy.  Ultimately that would be very bad for Enron for a variety of reasons which I could not follow and/or retain. The Director of the Department of Consumer Affairs said her office received a call yesterday afternoon from the Governor's office directing them, and all other state agencies, to turn off all computers by 4:00 p.m.  The Governor wanted to light the capitol Xmas tree and was concerned there would be too much drain on the power system.  He didn't want to be accused of adding to the electricity shortage, so the trade off was no state compputers would be used while the tree was lit.  The tree was turned off after half an hour.  Sandi has this morning's Sacramento Bee article which described the incident in somewhat different detail. 
Hardcopies also to follow. 
Please find attached Section I from the 4/6 draft of the IM. - #251862 v1 - SECTION 1.doc 
We need to discuss. 
Rick, As per your request -- please see the attached proposed electricity budget. Thanks, Carolyn 
FYI 
telecommunication markets 
FYI 
telecommunication markets Rick, Here are some articles which examine the ineffectiveness of WTO agreement (1997) on the opening up of the telecommunication markets around the world. One of the major forthcoming issues is Japan's risk of tbeing aken to the WTO over its high access costs in the Japanese domestic market. Both the US and EU have been urging the Japanese to bring down the cost or face the consequences.  We are still waiting to see what will happen in Brussels? Whether the WTO have enough power to enforce its regulations would be a major factor in determining the its prowess in the future. best regards, xi xi 
WRONG - We would find monopolies in supply and generation intolerable. thanks   mcs Joe Hillings@ENRON 24/03/2000 20:43 
To all -- Below is a proposed response to Carol Balassa's question, which gets at the impact of the energy services effort on government monopolies for the ownership and provision of energy.  As I have received various comments from a variety of people, I have tried to reflect what I see as a general consensus.  The response is drafted as coming from USTR, not from the ESC. We should be prepared to discuss this on Monday [Tim, I know you will be away, so if you have any comments, I'd welcome them before you head out.] Regards to all -- Bob 7.  What impact would such a description of ""energy services"" have in a country where the government retains a monopoly over the ownership and provision of energy? ""The United States welcomes and supports the efforts of countries that are privatizing and deregulating their energy and energy services sectors.  It believes such actions are in all parties' economic interests. However, as part of WTO negotiations on energy services, we seek neither to require governments to privatize ownership of energy resources or the provision of energy or to break up existing monopolies. Our goals are market access commitments and a regulatory framework that ensure that energy services firms are able to compete with all suppliers in the provision of energy services on a fair, non-discriminatory basis, under a timely, transparent and independent regulatory framework, including access to transmission and distribution networks.  We want to ensure that where monopolies exist, that they do not abuse that 
The following is the list of suppliers referenced by Governor Davis in today 's Washington, DC press conference.  For those of you that are IEP members, it would be helpful if you forwarded to IEP any comments you have made or plan on making to the press. These suppliers have advised the ISO that they are unwilling to sell power into the California markets. Dynegy Power Marketing Trans Alta Eugene Water and Electric Southern Energy Trading PowerEx (BC Hydro) Public Service Colorado Enron Power Marketing Portland General Avista (Washington Water Power) Idaho Power Company PPL Montana Seattle City Light Puget Sound Energy Julee Malinowski-Ball Edson + Modisette jmball@ns.net 
FYI 
FYI 
I already sent this to Mary.  Some interesting quotes from Dick O'Neill.  Let mw know if any of you want to see Seabron's paper 
Trying this again.? Attached are Seabron's  Notes to the recent FERC meeting.? Please treat these as confidential and  not for public distribution. - 00-02-13 SA Memo on FERC meeting on market power.doc 
June 
What is this?? 
June American Foreign Service Association President Marshall Adair called to advise that of the 10 foreign service officers now in economic training at the Foreign Service Institute, 7 of the 10 had indicated an interest in join ing Enron's Federal Affairs office for the newly instituted Business Practicum. Marshall asked that I call Tom Martin, deputy director of the Office of the Business Coordinator which I did. I agreed that we would take two of the foreign service officers.   Tom Pierce's last post was in Amman, Jordan where he headed the commercial section at the embassy as senior economic officer. Following the Business Practicum, he will be joining the Office of the Business Coordinator which is an excellent fit for us. He had prior assignments in Melbourne and Ecuador where he did counsellor work. He worked at Case-Harvester in sales and marketing and has an MBA. Rob Winchester will be going to one of the ""stans"" after the Business Practicum. His earlier foreign service assignments include regional economic office in Washington with the East Asia Bureau, DOS Operations Center, Malayasia and Romania counsellor assignments. I've agreed to accepting both and will be assigning one to each of you. Carolyn will need to get them an office in the expansion space at Rome. Joe P.S. I think we should organize some briefing materials and take them to lunch so they can be oriented before arrival. 
Do you have a list of ongoing projects the Southern Cone Gov't Affairs group is engaged in?  Please forward to me if you do.( If something does'nt already exist, perhaps you could pull something together at your earliest convenience ) Also, any information as to relative priority of these projects and level of resources ( both internal and external ) you have committed by project would be helpful. I look forward to getting down to Sao Paulo soon to visit with you and your group. Hope your move goes  uneventfully. Thanks for all 
In advance of my visit next week, could you please prepare a list of priority activities currently underway in your goup( domestic and international ) with some sense of the level of  resources being committed to each of those activities( internal and external resources ) ?  What might also be helpful with respect to each of those activities are short, mid, and long-term objectives,e.g,.value creation, that you have identified. Thanks very much. I 
FYI- Terry is trying, at least with me. 
We used the BIT threat once before when they tried to re-trade TGS's rates in violation of the sales agreement. George Wasaff  can give you all of the details. This time we may have to go all of the way and litigate.  Tax issues in Argentina have also killed trading.  The problem is that the constitution empowers the states with all kinds of taxing authority so if you want changes in policies you have to have a constitutional amendment.  You can imagine the eagerness of politicians to take on that battle. I will be setting up some quality time with you the week of the 21st.  Again, congratulations. This is an exciting and complex part of the world and I can't think of anyone better to bring some focusand results here. 
Terry, here is the summary of the dispute.  Let me know if you would like any additional information, or if would would like me to put this into memo form. Argentine law imposes a stamp tax on written contracts.  In the past several years, the provincial governments of several of the provinces have, in an effort to raise desperately needed revenues, adopted a new and broader interpretation of the tax's application.  These provinces--Rio Negro, Neuquen, and Santa Cruz--have sought to apply this interpretation retroactively, resulting in the imposition of staggering assessments.  For TGS, the Enron company (40% owned) most affected, the assessments total $153 million in taxes, $172 million in interest, and $208 million in fines.  (See attached chart for breakdown). To date, court challenges to the taxes have been unsuccessful.  TGS has pending before the Argentine federal Supreme Court an application to declare the taxes unconstitutional and unlawful, but the Court has, as yet, not acted.  Meanwhile, the provinces are free to attempt to collect the taxes, by levy if necessary. The federal government has, in documents filed in another case, expressed the view that the imposition of stamp taxes in the manner folowed by the provinces is illegal.  Energas has also expressed its view that the taxes are illegal.  The federal Supreme Court, however, has recently denied an application (filed by another company) to enjoin collection of the taxes. On November 23, 1999, Enron notified the federal government that it regarded the imposition of these taxes as in violation of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between Argentina and the U.S.  Since that notification, representatives of Enron and the government have held several meetings. Substantive discussions, however, have not yet begun.  The Treaty mandates a six-month cooling off period before arbitration can be initiated.  If the negotiations with the government are unsuccessful, Enron intends to file an arbitration with the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in Washington, D.C.  By way of information, Endesa currently has an arbitration underway at ICSID challenging the taxes, presumably under a BIT between Spain or Chile and Argentina. 
One of the things I'd like to talk about next week is setting up a process to funnel requests for Ken's time through ( Jeff andf Joe also), so that we're forwarding to him consensus  high priority requests. Thanks. Joe Hillings@ENRON 02/07/2000 07:48 AM 
Ken: While in Europe last week I arranged a meeting with Douglas Worth, Secretary General of the Business Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the OECD. Doug headed the Washington office of IBM until he retired a few years ago, then joined Carla Hills firm and two years ago became Secretary General of the BIAC. During his Washington service for IBM he headed up the Trade Committee of the United States Council for International Business to which we have long been a member. Doug and I discussed the promotion of energy services and he had several suggestions which I found to be excellent. He is a top level person who recommends policy to the OECD. He suggested that he would like to organize a meeting with you briefing OECD ministers and senior staff on business plans of today, changes in the market place and what is necessary to advance a business in today's atmosphere. Doug believes that having such a high level briefing advances the cause of business and competitive policies which is the priority of the OECD. He also called my attention to the OECD Forum 2000 to be held June 26-28 in Paris. Doug has offered to contact Dennis Lamb, another former Washingtonian in the diplomatic service who is arranging the program and if you are available he would ask that you be a primetime speaker. It covers the type of issues that you addressed at the WTO in Seatlle and the World Economic Forum in Davos.  (I would dearly love to have a few minutes briefing from you on your Davos appearances). I think these presentations at the OECD, one a private luncheon with Ministers that Doug thinks would be an informal presentation and the possibility of a slot on the June 26-28 program would be excellent for our cause and hope that your schedule either in June or later can accommodate this opportunity. Joe PS: Doug and his eco-staff director Ms. Hanne Rosenbaum (she knows and has worked with John Palmisano) told me that one of their main themes this year is eco-efficiency which seems to fit our Enron goals. 
Thanks- you got it about right .....except that Kean's Democratic credentials are seriously in question these days as are his "" liberal- minded"" credentials. You may have won over an individual  who can now clearly  be categorized as a lost soul. ""Foster, Gary"" <GFoster@Antigenics.com> on 11/30/2000 08:07:18 AM 
Good news and bad news. First, the good news.  The DPUC issued a final compliance decision (attached) Thursday approving the ENA prices and removing the draft language that would have released special contract customers. The bad news is that we are falling behind in finalizing the agreements with UI.  Mostly this is due to unavailability of some of the UI personnel.  The one business issue that is causing a bit of concern on their end is a fear that they have promised us too much in the way of an option on their nuclear generation.  In any event, they have already made the commitments in our binding MOU.  This issue is not a deal breaker but it is contributing to the delay.  Right now we are scheduled to meet with them in NY Tuesday the 14th through Thursday the 16th.  As a result, I can not be in Houston on the 15th as planned.  I am, however, still trying to make it for the 16th.  Perhaps we can reschedule our meeting sometime on the 16th.  Fallon and I are meeting at 8:30 on the 17th to discuss the project also. 
Ditto Palmer's comments. Jeff Brown 09/27/99 03:20 PM 
Attached is the draft press release prepared by EEI announcing the joint effort with our coalition (CUBR).  I need your comments/questions/concerns by close of business on Sept. 29. Thanks, Jeff 
I think you're missing a ""solve"" in last sentence. 
How difficult issues are resolved in Illinois.......... 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
Great news and congrats! Robert Hemstock@ECT 11/26/2000 01:19 AM 
Rick, You will recall Steve Kean participated in a conference call on Nov 14 with John Lavorato et al to discuss emergency Pool Rule changes that the Power Pool intended to implement in two days.  We developed a 5 point action plan to deal with the proposed Power Pool rule changes that would have a significant impact on the value of Enron's PPA investment in Alberta. By way of update to Steve, you may wish to brief him that: 1) It appears the Power Pool will not proceed with the rule change designed to exclude importers from setting pool price.  They will proceed with dispatch risk rule changes but we have given input on those too and I am optimistic that Enron will be able to live with these rule changes, the final wording of which we should see on Monday, 2) We  have set up a meeting with the Minister of Resource Development (you, Rob Milnthorp and I will attend) on December 11 to encourage the Alberta Government to stay the course, and 3) This week we will finalize our ""Lessons from other Jurisdictions"" document (that Steve sent me materials to include in) and will provide it to the Alberta Government and Power Pool and then follow up with them. 
The attached memo provides an update on the status of the Power Pool's further consideration of the proposed rule changes.  In summary, it appears the Pool will not proceed with the proposal to exclude import offers from setting pool price but will recommend a rule that reduces ability of suppliers to become price takers on volumes that were originally priced too high to clear the merit order.  I will receive more specifics on the dispatch risk rule change on Monday. Regards, Rob 
Tend to agree?????????????????  What does that mean????????????????????????????????????????????????????/ 
Let's discuss when you're back in- not urgent. 
The attached memo has been approved by Linda Robertson, Lisa Yoho, and Chris Long.  Additionally, we have a call memo for Ken Lay, that we will forward on early next week. Chris Long will be in touch on Tuesday to help coordinate the recommended calls. Thanks, Larry Decker (202) 466-9163 
Can you all prepare briefing paper for Ken on Oliver as well as those we don't support? Thanks. 
FYI 
Here's a first draft of the emergency powers memo Sarah put together with V&E.  We are still awaiting one more section on the Federal Reserve's authority.  As you will note, there is remarkable authority vested in the President, including eminent domain.  Please note page 7, which read in combination with footnote #4 gives wide authority to the Federal government. Let's decide soon how we want to use this memo.  Thanks. - 140855_1.DOC 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontiereconomics.com> on 05/21/2001 09:19:19 AM Please respond to <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> 
Rick: Please find attached a short memo regarding last week's call with Jim and the Enron RTO team. It also has some thoughts on what we might cover with Steve K. at 2:00 p.m. CDT today. Some other time I would like to have a quick chat about how we move to the next step with the RTOs. It strikes me that there has been a real absence of cleare-headed thinking in the stakeholder chin-wagging sessions. If FERC will not impose a single design - on an abbreviated timeframe - is there another way to add some economic logic into the equation? Speak to you later... Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-05-21 SA Memo to Rick Shapiro on RTO conference call.doc 
FYI 
As we discussed....... as much flesh as we can put on this by midday tommorrow would be quite helpful. I would think there are significant aggregation opportunities available to us once this is implemented. Let me know what else you need from me. Thanks. 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
FYI Orlando Gonzalez 05/09/2001 08:22 PM 
I skipped your name on this one.  We are fully engaged on both these issues= . =20 
Attached is the summary of Dennis Bakke's comments on AES investment plan f= or Brazil.  Apparently these were  on CNN.  These are the same positions we an= d=20 the Investors Group have been discussing with government officials.=20 =20 The second article is on the rationing situation which will result in cuts= =20 of over 20% over the next 6 months. We are preparing a summary of the impacts on our business for discussion=20 with =20 you this week. AES Suspends Brazil Investments US-based power company AES Corp. has put on hold plans to invest between US$2 billion and US$2.5 billion on energy projects in Brazil, alleging that= =20 the government=01,s policy on pricing is jeopardizing its operations. AES President Dennis Bakke, on a brief visit to Brazil, said the company suspended indefinitely its plans to build as many as 10 thermoelectric powe= r plants. Bakke criticized Brazil's electricity sector regulator Aneel for maintainin= g=20 an energy policy that charged what Bakke said were ``unrealistically low price= s=20 for consumers,'' forcing AES to carry the burden of rising costs. He said investments would remain on hold until the government came up with a solution. AES has already invested US$6 billion in Brazil, primarily in electricity projects, making it one of the country's top private foreign investors. Energy Blackouts To Begin June 1 The government announced Tuesday that it will begin a policy of programmed blackouts starting June 1 as part of its energy rationing plan. Mines and Energy Ministry officials had at first hoped to delay any blackou= ts until August, concentrating first on a program to induce consumers to reduc= e energy use. The critical level of reservoirs in the country=01,s main=20 hydroelectric plants, however, forced Tuesday=01,s decision to accelerate the blackouts w= hich=20 will last until the end of November when the rainy season begins. The blackouts will occur in the Southeast, Central-West and Northeast regio= ns of the country. At the same time the government will introduce a program=20 providing incentives to consumers to reduce their energy use. The goal of the plan is= =20 to lower electricity consumption by 20%. Although the general outline of the rationing plan was announced Tuesday, t= he details have yet to be worked out due to differences between the government ministers who compose the National Energy Policy Council (CNPE). A new meeting of CNPE was set for May 23 by which time it is hoped that an agreem= ent will have been reached on how to implement the plan. The initial proposal from Mines and Energy was for a 15% reduction for industry, 20% for residences and between 18% and 20% for commerce. The ministries of finance, planning and development, however, asked for more ti= me=20 to consider the impact of the energy cuts. The principal concern among government officials is with the impact on the economy of the proposed blackouts. According to a study to be released toda= y=20 by the Get?lio Vargas Foundation, a 20% energy cut would slow economic growth = by 1.5% of gross domestic product and would have a direct impact on 850,000 jo= bs. Production costs for industry would rise 1.5%, government tax receipts woul= d decline by R$6.6 billion (US$2.9 billion) and Brazil=01,s trade deficit wou= ld=20 increase by US$1.6 billion, according to the study. The study=01,s authors also said= =20 there was no guarantee that the effects of the program would be limited to this year. Business leaders reacted with apprehension to the prospect of obligatory blackouts. Most defended a policy of separate reduction goals for each=20 industrial sector, sparing industries that depend heavily on electricity. The S?o Paul= o=20 State Federation of Industries (Fiesp) said that sectors who are major consumers = of energy such as steel should be exempted from any rationing. While details were lacking in the government=01,s plan, officials said that= the administration of the energy cuts would be placed in the hands of local=20 utilities which would determine the locations and schedules for daily blackouts.=20 According to national energy secretary Afonso Henriques, a 20% reduction in consumpti= on would amount to a cut of six hours a day. 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 05/09/2001=20 04:00:13 PM 
When do we want to get together to call Seabron w/  feedback? 
Jim/Rick/Steve: Please see the attached draft. I think I have everything in there we discussed. Sorry I this has been slower than planned -as I mentioned before I have been facing a family medical problem. I will be out of the office for much of the next two days. I can be reached at (617) 513-5904 (cellphone) or via email. I should be back in the office full-time from Thursday a.m. Cheers Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-04-23 SA Draft policy paper for review.doc 
What do you think? 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
FYI 
MEMORANDUM TO: Regulatory Affairs Committee Power Marketers Working Group FROM: Joe Hartsoe, Regulatory Affairs Committee Chair Bob Reilley, Power Marketers Working Group Chair Julie Simon, Vice President of Policy Mark Bennett, Senior Manager of Policy Erin Perrigo, Manager of Policy DATE: April 27, 2001 RE: California Order Proxy Price Calculation We have had an initial opportunity to review FERC's Order Establishing Prospective Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the California Wholesale Electric Markets and Establishing an Investigation of Public Utility Rates in Wholesale Western Energy Markets, and will provide a more detailed summary early next week. However, questions have arisen as to the calculation of the proxy price when a stage 1, 2 or 3 emergency is called.  In initial discussions with FERC staff, we have determined that the price mitigation will work as follows: For the following day, the ISO will publish at 8 a.m. an average of the daily prices published in Gas Daily for all California delivery points, as well as emissions costs.  The emissions costs will be calculated by the ISO using the Cantor Fitzgerald Environmental Brokerage Service.  The marginal unit will then be determined via the single price auction in the hour, and the ISO will then take the previously submitted and confidential heat rate data and multiply it by the posted average gas price and emissions costs for that hour to determine the market clearing price.  The ISO will not be calculating an estimated market-clearing price in advance. 
FYI- Seabron, as most of you know, is a consultant for us... his thoughts on FERC price cap order. 
I agree- it's not clear to me whether Cal. squares off with the feds on the RTO issue. All in all , a bad order that will only worsen the situation, not improve things( I'm saying that w/o benefit of order which is'nt out yet. Any thoughts? ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 04/26/2001 02:14:35 PM 
Rick: Sorry I missed your call. I had just popped out for a coffee. I'll just wait until next week before proceeding, after I get some comments from you guys. I should pretty much be around all next week so you can catch me whenever. I suppose you have been following the FERC California decision pretty closely. How CA gets integrated into a new RTO appears to be the key question. I would be surprised if RTO West even wants them in, given the credit risk issues, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
Here are some initial reactions and questions to the CAISO market stabilization plan, which is attached. Give me or Sue Mara your comments and then we can turn it into message points for  media / advocacy folks. In addition to reviewing the plan, I listened in to part of a stakeholder call that occured Friday 10 a.m. PST. DRAFT MESSAGE POINTS: With limited exceptions, the plan does nothing to increase supply or decrease 
FYI 
Rick, Thanks for the message. Sorry for not getting back to you before. Easter is a holiday in Venezuela and we got two days off. I am certainly involved in the domestic portion of the project, lobbying and educating Venezuelan authorities on its benefits in particular, and the benefits of an open and transparent market in general. I am working closely with Emilio Vicens and Guido Caranti who are leading the development of the project. The three of us have written extensive comments to regulations, have met on several opportunities with the regulator and with the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), making significant progress on this front, such as allowing to create a working group to study the project in detail. The actual creation is still pending, but we will bring this issue during a meeting scheduled this week. Politics surrounding this project are complicated. PDVSA has traditionally imposed its views on MEM, who rubberstamped all its decisions. With the Chavez Administration, things have changed dramatically, almost paralizing every PDVSA initiative. Since PDVSA is the one that really needs to obtain the permit to supply the gas, PDVSA was ""in charge"" of dealing with MEM. Given this environment, and once the commercial terms with PDVSA were in place, Enron decided (of course, with PDVSA's approval) to be proactive, starting a demonstration tour of the project to capture MEM's and the regulator's interests. Moreover, the initiative to involve the USG started with a conversation that Joe Hillings and I had during the GA meeting at the Woodlands. He requested a one pager summarizing the project to be presented to the USG for its inclusion in Bush's agenda, during the meeting that Chavez and Bush would have during the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas Summit in Canada this month. Lisa Yoho got involved later, and then Tom Briggs and his DC team. I participated in the drafting of a previous document to the one you attached. The US embassy has been informed, but perhaps kept on the side because we are affraid that its involvement might backfire. The relationsahip between the USG and Venezuela have been antagonistic due to OPEC's policies, and the political leftist leaning of the Chavez Administration. We are selling this project as a Venezuelan project, that will advance Venezuelan interests (more than US interests), and so far has worked. I don't mean that the effort to include this project in Bush's agenda will have the same fate, because the US Embassy deals at lower levels and the message doesn't get to Chavez, who is the real sponsor of the project. Lower levels, except people at PDVSA-Gas, are in a neutral to slight opposition stance (recent changes in MEM and PDVSA might have aligned these interests). I hope this background info helped understand the dynamics associated with the Jose LNG project. Please feel free to let me know if you need additional information. My best regards, ALF Richard Shapiro 04/12/2001 11:01 AM 
How involved are you on this? 
Please find attached a brief outline of the Jose LNG project. Eric will call later this afternoon to discuss. Thanks, Jonathan 
I still think an additional organizational announcement is necessary- I can= =20 explain further when you so desire. Thanks. 
Thoughts? 
Lauren, Mr. Shapiro has updated his presentation.  Can you make sure that this version is available to him for Monday's meeting?  Also, will his presentation be saved on a computer for his use or does he need to have it on a ""CD/diskette""? Thanks gngr 713-853-7751 
I think these are quite good...the missing piece, I would argue, that we need to include is a talking point on the need for FERC to focus significant resources on the identification and elimination of market power in electricity markets and the need to encourage the development of distributed generation and more effective demand - side response mechanisms , partly in response to market power concerns. This is a huge issue in  getting wholesale electricity markets to work effectively, i.e; to create discernable  consumer welfare benefits.... and we ( Enron ) need to talk about this this issue and concern and talk about it frequently and w/ the same passion we talk about the need for open markets. Linda Robertson 04/04/2001 12:09 PM 
Steve, per our conversation yesterday in Houston, what do you think of these TPs?  To be used by both Ken and Jeff in conversations and meetings with the Bush Administration. - Skilling Talking Points.doc 
These were the only articles w/ polling info on rate increases that Ann could find.  I don't think the Chronicle has done an independent poll. 
Here's ad campaign that I found through Olivia( Davis's person in D.C.) ....if this is it , not so bad. 
Congrats!! Ray Alvarez 03/22/2001 04:29 PM 
Rick, I heard from my Bolivia regulatory team that the supreme decree is a reality and that it is very positive- including full recovery of the $100MM gas deferred account that we were hanging out on.  I will provide more details as soon as I receive them.  Ray 
Can we discuss? 
Here's my effort to respond to the PRC discussion we had in Kohler. The criteria for evaluating folks is at the end of the presentation ... but I took the liberty to go a bit further and comprehensively address the PRC process.    Hope I didn't overstep my bounds .... I'm around today, as well as Monday (ENA meeting most of the day) and Tuesday, but then traveling in Reno, Las Vegas and San Francisco for the remainder of the week.   I'd welcome the opportunity to discuss the reasoning and rationale behind the document. As I said on my voice mail, I circulated the document to the attendees at Kohler (with the exception of Sue L. and Linda R.).  I've had feedback from a number of the attendees, but I can't call it a consensus document. As always, thanks for the opportunity to make suggestions like this. 
Can we review over weekend- I'll ask Maureen to schedule an hour for the 3 of us on Monday. 
Please see attached. We have tried to develop five basic market objectives, show why these critical given Enron's strategic position, and describe some of the market attributes that follow from the positions. I think these attributes will lead directly to (at least our) proposed ""ideal"" RTO structure. We can cut down some of the background discussion if you wish to circulate it to any other audiences within the company. But I wanted you guys to have a sense of where we are coming from with respect to some of the conclusions. Unless instructed otherwise I will continue to circulate documents only to the two of you, and you can forward to others as you see fit. Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com - 01-03-01 SA Draft paper on market objectives and attributes.doc 
Admittedly , ERCOT was handled poorly from a pleading submission perspective, but there is a legitimate discussion going on within the company that , at the very least,  will result in a more flexible approach to market structure and , perhaps( this is my preference) will result in a sharpening and refocusing of our positions that will acknowledge the necessity for an ""LMP""-like approach in real-time to achieve sufficient depth of liquidity.( with a keen focus on developing forward markets in transmission rights). Airing our differences and doubts externally creates absolutely no benefit - At the end of the day, we're here ( no matter where we end up on this issue) to enhance the company's commercial success, not to win an ideological battle. I understand and value the passion people in our group bring to their work... I don't want to lose that ""fire"", but merely want to assure that it is properly directed. We will resolve this issue shortly and am quite  sure we will all work hard to ensure uniformity of message at that time. Susan J Mara 02/21/2001 06:15 PM 
Ziad   and Elena and Diane and Alex, It is not exactly true -- but I can see how people got that idea.  Enron has decided to withdraw the filings we made in ERCOT. Our position on the ERCOT market structure is being reviewed. Enron continually goes through a process of reviewing its policies to make sure they are consistent with our business needs.  I can tell you that there are some strong supporters of Hogan's policies INSIDE Enron now and these supporters are finding an ear. Currently, we are reviewing the positions we are taking on market structure in ERCOT and the east.  We have to ensure we are practical -- from a business point of view -- and not being just religious about our views.  Probably the number one concern of the business people is the ability to have a deep, liquid market for trading.  I believe that much of the discussion has focused on the ways in which we can achieve such a market. After our review of ERCOT, Enron may indeed support a PJM-like structure for the real-time market, but the filings we make will likely not imply that this approach be implemented everywhere.  I expect that we will be free to support different approaches in different parts of the country, depending on the evolution of the markets in each location. What does this mean for our position in California?  So far, nothing.  We are standing firm on our California position, supporting the ISO and stakeholder-approved approach for congestion management, and do not have any plans to make new proposals. Further, we have the support of the Traders on this. Please feel free to call with any concerns. Believe me, I'm having just as hard of a time working through this as you all are. Sue Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 ""Alaywan, Ziad"" <ZAlaywan@caiso.com> 02/21/2001 01:12 PM 
Rick, thought you might enjoy this alternative theory on the root cause of Cal's problem.  Ray 
Feb. 2, 2001, 8:06PM The rest of us should tell California to go fly a kite By DAVE BARRY When we consider the serious electricity shortage in California, our reaction, as concerned Americans, is: Ha ha! No, seriously, we are alarmed. Because history teaches us that whatever happens to California -- smog, road rage, tofu, coffee that is mainly air, cell  phones, the belief that abdominal muscles are attractive, Shirley MacLaine,  people taking in-line skating seriously, grandmothers sporting new and  flagrantly inappropriate bosoms -- eventually happens to the rest of the nation.  Thus it is vital that we analyze the California electricity shortage and see if  we can develop a workable solution before we become bored and change the  subject. Our first question is: What, exactly, is electricity? When we look in our Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, we see that ""electricity"" is defined  as a ""class of physical phenomena resulting from the existence of charge  and from the interaction of charges."" What does this mean, in lay-person's  terms? It means that whoever wrote the Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia is a big, fat dope. Because we know from our junior-high-school science training that electricity is actually a fast-moving herd of electrons, which are tiny one-celled animals that can survive in almost any environment except inside a  double-A battery, where they die within minutes. Electrons are formed when clouds rub together and become excited. This was proved in the famous experiment wherein Benjamin Franklin flew a kite during a  thunderstorm and was almost killed. Encouraged by this success, Franklin went on  to conduct many more electrical experiments, including rolling a hoop in a  thunderstorm, playing hopscotch in a thunderstorm and doing somersaults in a  thunderstorm. Finally one night he was caught wearing only a bonnet and playing Mister Pooter Rides the Pony in a thunderstorm, leaving the authorities with no choice  but to arrest him and make him ambassador to France.  Nevertheless, Franklin had proved an important scientific point, which is  that electricity originates inside clouds. There it forms into lightning, which  is attracted to the earth by golfers. After entering the ground, the electricity hardens into coal, which, when 
Read last quote from Steve Fetter. 
CC list suppressed... December 13, 2000 Energy Price Volatility May Hurt Utilities' Credit By REBECCA SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL Recent volatility in wholesale energy markets is undermining the credit ratings and may eventually crimp the borrowing ability of some of the nation's biggest utilities, long regarded in the credit markets as some of the safest bets around. It is the worst out West, where the price of power to be delivered Wednesday hit a new high of $1,182 per megawatt hour on California's state-sanctioned auction, a benchmark for the entire region. That compares with $30 a year ago. But even utilities in the East, such as GPU Inc. of Parsippany, N.J., and Consolidated Edison of New York, also are at risk because they are paying higher prices than ever for spot-market electricity purchases and aren't always able to pass along that cost to their customers. As an indication of just how bad things are getting, Moody's Investors Service Tuesday put Seattle City Light on ""negative outlook,"" even though it is one of the lowest-cost generators in the nation. There hasn't been much rain in the Northwest this year and the city-owned utility has been forced to go to the wholesale market this month to buy 100 to 200 megawatts of electricity each day. That isn't much energy, but with prices that have gone as high as $1,000 per megawatt hour this week, compared with the $24 per megawatt hour that the municipal utility pays for power from the federal hydroelectric system, costs add up fast. The utility, which issued $100 million in bonds this week, is raising rates 10%, effective Jan. 1, and will keep the rate increase in effect as long as it takes to dig its way out. ""Prices are at absurd levels,"" says Seattle City Light Superintendent Gary Zarker. ""I know others are looking at 
Here are some thoughts. 
EPSA's california story. 
- Updated California The Real Story 1-01.doc 
Rick - In case you didn't receive this, here is the e-mail that Cynthia sent yesterday about next week's Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing.  It will be held on Wednesday, January 31 at 9:30 a.m. in 216 Hart Senate Office Building and will most likely continue for a second day, to be determined.  Let us know if you need anything else.  Thanks. Cynthia Sandherr 01/25/2001 05:30 PM 
Steve:  I ran into Senate Energy Committee Chief of Staff Andrew Lundquist who advised me that Chairman Murkowski (R-AK) sent a letter directly to Ken Lay asking him or his designee (you?)( Jeff Skilling?)  to testify at the January 31st Senate Energy Committee hearing on the California situation.  As reported earlier, Secretary Abraham and FERC Chairman Hebert will be testifying at the beginning of the hearing.  Enron would be asked to join a panel of eight which includes invited witnesses of:  SoCalEd, PG&E, SMUD, LAWDP, Calpine, Williams and Reliant.  Should Enron accept, EPSA would have four witnesses on this panel of eight. When I spoke to Andrew, he said the Committee was more interested in hearing Enron's testimony on markets, long term contracts, risk management, etc. than the generation and new power plant construction viewpoints likely to be offered by the other EPSA witnesses.  He believes this will complement what the Administration witnesses will say.  Believe it or not, recently, Chairman Murkowski has made some progress in moving towards supporting Enron's open access electricity  transmission position, although his draft legislation is silent on this issue.  Our testimony on the importance of open access for reliability purposes (""reliability"" would be the tie-in to discuss this issue in relation to the draft legislation) plus on the need for consistency with the other existing open access provisions in the Murkowski draft bill  could provide an excellent platform for Enron to inform many Congressional members about California, markets and deregulation needs (the Murkowski draft bill was sent to you earlier and is to be introduced February 5th or 6th.) Steve, earlier you had asked for the opportunity to do a Hill staff briefing on California to reach a larger audience with our messages.  I believe this would provide an excellent opportunity to achieve this goal.  If you would like, either at a breakfast prior to or in the afternoon after, we could also do a Press Club briefing and/or arrange to have a room on the Hill (perhaps on the House side) to invite staffers for additional briefings (and include the other EPSA witnesses.) In the alternative, if this hearing date does not work in your schedule,  the other EPSA witnesses could make some of our points for us.  However, these points might be somewhat diluted given these witnesses' other priorities.  As always, you (Jeff and Ken) make a fabulous witness. Please advise.  (This hearing will be covered extensively by the Press.) 
? ? ? - Final pt1.doc - Final pt2.doc 
Rich Shapiro requested this chart for Ken Lay. Thanks for Kristian for doing the heavy lifting. I have spruced up the chart a bit and turned into a Power Point chart.  Open the .xls file only if you want to modify the source data. Alan Comnes 
Attached is list for Bush's transition advisory  teams- notably, we're absent from all but Commerce(Sandherr) and Energy(Lay). 
See my self-evaluation on PEP system. Thanks Maureen McVicker 12/22/2000 03:47 PM 
Steve Kean would like each of you to send him a list of your accomplishments for 2000. If you have already provided the list to Steve, please disregard this email. DUE DATE:  Close of business, Thurs., Jan. 4 
Electric Utility Industry 
Final version. 
Electric Utility Industry FYI 
Electric Utility Industry Joe, Linda Robertson and Joe Hartsoe of Enron asked me to forward to you the attached comments and answers of Enron on the subject document.  It is in WordPerfect 8.  If you need to have it converted to another format, please let me know: 202-828-5851.  Hope all is well and congratulations on landing a position with LeBoeuf. Dan - 0135652.01 
Congrats! Great job for you and everyone else in D.C.( & Houston)  office that assisted. Thanks. Chris Long 12/16/2000 10:16 AM 
Congress Passes the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 Late Friday afternoon, December 15, Congress passed the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.  The purpose of the Act is to eliminate unnecessary regulation of commodity futures exchanges and other entities falling within the  coverage of the Commodities Exchange Act (""CEA"") and the provide legal certainty with regard to certain futures and derivatives transactions.  By enacting such changes, Congress intends to promote product innovation and to enhance the competitive position of US financial markets. Certain provisions of the Act open the door for Enron's further product innovation and growth.  Specifically, the Act provides important legal certainty for energy and other transactions occuring both on an over-the-counter (OTC) bilateral basis and on multilateral electronic trading platforms.  Enron was a leading advocate of passage of this legislation. Bilateral Transactions Under the Act, bilateral transactions in all commodities (other than agriculture commodities) that do not occur on trading facility (i.e. not on a multi-party exchange) are exempt from most provisions of the CEA as long as the transactions are entered solely between ""eligible contract participants""(i.e. persons and certain legal entities satisfying capital thresholds and other requirements under the Act).  This provision essentially codifies and expands existing CFTC exemptions for swaps and forward contracts, thereby eliminating a degree of legal ambiguity that has frustrated product innovation and growth. Multilateral Transactions In addition, the Act creates a broad exemption for any agreement, contract or transaction in commodities (other than agriculture commodities) so long as they the transactions are between ""eligible commercial participants"", are entered into on a ""principle-to-principle basis"" and that take place on a multi-party ""electronic facility"".  This exemption could facilitate expansion of EnronOnline to allow for multi-party transactions, however certain legal requirements will have to be met. Other Transactions The Act also creates a broad exclusion for a number of commodities that are of interest to Enron, including ""credit risk measure"" commodities and weather derivatives .  Again, the derivative transaction exclusion will have to meet certain legal thresholds. This legislation has been over six years in the making and the collective support of many Enron employees has been crucial.  Thank you to all that have contributed to the passage on this important legislation.  We will have a more through legal summary of this legislation in the near future. Do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 466- 9158 of Mark Taylor at (713) 853-7459 with any questions. 
Rich, I am on a leave from LeBoeuf and working on the Transition Team as part of the Energy Policy Group for the next few weeks.  We request Enron's views on electricity issues.  I regret the short notice and tight deadline for your response (Monday COB), but time is short and there is a need to flesh out Administration positions and prepare nominees.  Please consider responding to the questions as an attachment to your response, which should use the requested template.  Until we move in the D.C. Transition office on Monday or so, the best way to reach me is cell phone (202-255-6803) or email. Regards. 
What time is call and what is #? 
Can we make it happen? 
Can we do? 
Sam tells me (confirmed by Sierra) that the Governor is expected to make an announcement about the market opening date, etc.,, by this Wednesday.   Can we get Ken Lay to make a call early this week? I've attached some message points and a backgrounder.    Page me if you need to chat. 
FYI 
I agree w/ Mary and made this point earlier. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 12:22 PM 
I'm not sure whether we want Hoecker to make the fourth point.  What do others think? 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
California) 
California) Rick, Here are the documents that Peter has prepared for Mark Frevert. Nailia 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
California) Forwarding these to you (you received second from Pamela but not the first) in anticipation of our conf. call tomorrow about Ken's speech in Majorca on July 7. 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
Rick As per your request, see attached summary regarding our activities in Brasil from Jan to April. Unfortunately we couldn't sent to you before due to a lot problems we are facing here. Thanks Sergio Assad 
This is to inform you the recent approval of the below commented rules in Argentina. If the economic and political environment gets calmer, these rules will be an important step in the power deregulation process an will allow us to reach some of the goals set for the regulatory group for this year. Goal 1- Eliminate or Increase fuel declaration caps: there will not be more fuel declarations but price declarations (Section 1, Resolution 135). The rules do not mention any cap for price declarations. Goal 2 - Daily fuel declaration: The 6 month fuel declaration was replaced by a daily price declaration (Section 1, Resolution 135). Goal 3 - Reduce or eliminate the obligation to physically back up agreements with end users or LDCs: According to the interpretation of AGEERA (Gencos Association) we would have been gotten also this objective and marketers may already buy or sell spot as long as the contract with the customer does not have supply guarantee (Section 5, Resolution 135). It is not clear in the rule wich is the condition for marketers to buy or sell spot. Now the Secretariat of Energy must issue its own Resolution to amend the technical Procedures in line with these rules. From the text of Resolution 135 (sections 3 c, 5 and considerations) there would be a good probability to reach other two goals through the Secretariat of Energy rule: Reduce minimum term for Output & Demand Marketing Agreements to one month Eliminate or reduce to 1 MW the threshold for Output Marketing Agreements Amr and I are asisting Buenos Aires Ofice to analize the new rules to eventually submit comments to the Secretariat of Energy. Attached is the document with the regulatory goals. Regards Guillermo 
In an attempt to further reduce State intervention in the power market, on June 19, the Executive Branch issued Decree 804/01 which completes the deregulation process of the power industry initiated in 1992, and amends Electricity Law 24.065.  On June 26 the Minister of Infrastructure issued Resolution 135/01 setting forth  the guidelines for the future regulation of the Decree. The Secretariat of Energy's resolution that will regulate the Decree will be effective as from September 1, 2001. All agents of the electric sector will be invited to comment the terms of regulatory decree, although such comments will be used for informational purposes and will not bind the Secretariat of Energy to make any changes whatsoever to its original document. Although Decree No 804/01 is effective as from today, there are doubts in the industry as to whether it will be abolished in the future by Congress.  The reason for this uncertainty is that such Decree was issued within the framework of the Competitivity Law, by which Congress delegated to the Executive Branch its  powers to legislate  specifically on changes required to transform the economy.  Although this Decree and the changes it fosters indirectly affect the economy, since the law it amends is not purely ""economical"", it may be questioned.  There is no term within which Congress may exercise this right. Please find a summary of the relevant changes below. Generators Remuneration: Forward Market: freely negotiated Spot Market:  only payment of ""hourly spot price"" at each node. Hourly Spot Price: determined by price offers based on demand and transportation constraints Daily Declarations The day before the daily dispatch, each Generator shall: declare its price offers for each  peak, shoulder and valley hour at its node; declare its maximum operating limits and minimum available capacity; offer all of its available capacity. 
Luiz. Thank you for your note.  We are still in the boxing ring!. The first round was won but we still have some more rounds to go. Next week is the consent, provably in two weeks we will discuss the regulatory obstacles.. Jose 
Topic I -- Amendment 4 We spent the morning perfecting Aditivo 4 with Furnas, to cover the situation where the commissioning plan did not go as scheduled. It was signed early afternoon and sent to Eletrobras. The Eletrobras Diretoria had not followed this issue closely and need legal clearance. Furnas and the Ministry (Perazzo) called to give it priority. Late at night we received word that the ""parecer"" (opinion) was ready and that it the Anex would  signed by Eletrobras next Monday and entered into their Board meeting next Tuesday. Petrobras sent us the letter we asked but took out of their version a key word ""only"". ""Only"" refers that they will not go after us for non-payment if Furnas does not pay. In the letter they also stated that they will commence the loading operation -- at their own risk - Saturday. This was requested by Perazzo to save logistical time because it takes three days to get to Cuiaba from the refinery. [Advised Laine of the situation to check Monday how many trucks were loaded and  in transit] We contacted Perazzo through Sergio Assad to get his word that there would not be a last minute hitch; otherwise, we may have to refuse to take the diesel and would create a BIG PR problem for all. Topic III - Consent Package (Opinions, Aditivo, Consent) Furnas came in with the list of issues they wanted to discuss. I instead insisted that we treat this meeting as a continuation of the MME meeting and follow the Agenda  by looking at the Consent document package -- actually go over the text -  that they find objectionable, and,  if it the text had a direct link with any of their issues, we would discuss and examine the relative positions. What they told me is what they have told me before, that some of the issues have nothing to do with the Consent but they want it as a condition to agree to the package. Which is fine to me, because it will make it clear to the government what we have been saying --- they want to change the deal. In Furnas' defense, I need to add that they feel they have been handed a bad contract  and they want regulatory relief, which it has been granted, on a case-by-case basis, in other deals. So part of their strategy is to force MME, or Aneel to provide some tariff relief. I asked them to list out  the key issues with the Consent-  Old-- a) the 90 days additional time (Furnas), b) The guarantee substitution at the time of privatization, c) the lenders involvement on contract changes ""we do not want to go to Washington to negotiate"" - Newer - d) giving up their right to ask Aneel to ""homologar"", ratify; rather than ""registrar"" contract changes [big risk for us] . I believe the have more direct issues. We go back to Rio Monday (another holiday down the drain) ..and Tuesday to complete the list -- Topic II -- Regulatory conflicts Jose 
Here is the revised presentation. 
2 e-mails attached 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
Mark, Your site is finally activated. Real interesting. Worth a look Link to the DWR Contracts. http://www.sco.ca.gov/power_page/contract_info.htm Ban An interesting article too: Connell: Power cost twice Davis' figure July 6, 2001 By JOHN HOWARD The Orange County Register SACRAMENTO -- The average cost of electricity purchased under $43 billion of worth of state contracts is actually more than double the amount reported by Gov. Gray Davis' administration, state Controller Kathleen Connell said Thursday. Connell said her staff's analysis put the per-megawatt average at $170, compared with $69 to $79 estimated by Davis. Connell stopped short of suggesting that the higher cost could drive another increase in rates, although consumer groups said the higher amount likely would require some future increase. The controller, who writes the state's checks, said her figures assume fixed prices for natural gas over the duration of the contracts, which range from a few months to 20 years. The administration, noting that nearly half its contracts are pegged to the fluctuating market price of natural gas, said costs on many of the contracts would decline over time. Consumer groups were skeptical of the administration's numbers. ""You could cut these numbers in various ways and make different averages, long-range or short-range contracts, peak power or nonpeak, and probably either average could be defended mathematically,"" said Nettie Hoge of The Utility Reform Network. ""We can't tell you whether it's $69 or $170 - the 
Are you attending? This is a change- why? 
Leaving voicemail with two comments: 1 ) Demand buydown: establish participation threshold of 20 kw...residential inclusion is unnecessary and will draw additional fire........2) Eliminating undue discrimination: we should make clear that non-discrimination means all uses of transmission system subject to FERC's jurisdiction shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Thanks. 
Take a look at attachment below for guidance in any discussion with Ristori= =20 next Wednesday re Bush energy policy statement and comparative aspects of E= C=20 green paper on sec. of supply. To remind you of what Loyola said on CNN=20 yesterday: - Agrees with need to re-evaluate role of nuclear plus future investment i= n=20 it . - Disagrees with weight given to supply side and indigenous sources,=20 compared with demand side and fuel diversity (also from external sources?) - Disagrees with exclusion of climate change considerations.=20 
Jan, please find a revised draft of the SoS paper following discussions wit= h Peter. I would be grateful if you could circulate it to the members of the electricity working group for comment by 30th April. Likewise could you als= o forward it to Ian Wood. (See attached file: efetsos.doc) Thanks Brian ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    DISCLAIMER    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This E-mail is private and confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. It is therefore only intended for the addressee(s). If you are not one of those persons you must not read, copy, store, disclose, use or distribute its contents. Please also contact the sender immediately and delete the original. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - efetsos.doc 
FYI 
Here's a first draft of the emergency powers memo Sarah put together with V&E.  We are still awaiting one more section on the Federal Reserve's authority.  As you will note, there is remarkable authority vested in the President, including eminent domain.  Please note page 7, which read in combination with footnote #4 gives wide authority to the Federal government. Let's decide soon how we want to use this memo.  Thanks. - 140855_1.DOC 
Lauren, Mr. Shapiro has updated his presentation.  Can you make sure that this version is available to him for Monday's meeting?  Also, will his presentation be saved on a computer for his use or does he need to have it on a ""CD/diskette""? Thanks gngr 713-853-7751 
Thoughts? 
Last Thursday, I made the first attached presentation to the FERC Staff at the power marketer's meeting on the FERC's investigation of the wholesale market in the West (and in particular California).  Ellen Wolf (of Tabors Caramanis) and I created this presentation building on previous presentations by Tim Belden and Dave Parquet.  In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: There isn't much FERC can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market.  We discouraged FERC from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the California and the rest of the West as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the Commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The IOUs have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity.  They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at ISO real time prices.  My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The Commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in Powerpoint.  When you do, you will find there are many ""hidden"" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to Staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (Scott Miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than Staff's previous meetings with the IOUs and the generators.  Based on the numerous phone calls I've been getting, the Staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that Tim sent to Scott Miller on Friday.  Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message.  On Friday, Tim talked to Scott and answered some additional questions.  Tim said that Enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory PX buying requirement and would like the IOUs to be able to buy from Enron Online.  He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . 
Can't open- meeting w/ Breathitt went well .. still alot of work to do- will keep you  advised. Ralph Reed <ralph@censtrat.com> on 09/08/2000 12:14:30 PM 
Here's another good candidate for head of the DC office you guys may want to sit down with.  Elizabeth Stolpe headed the DC office for Champion Industries, is highly respected on the Hill and the political community, and got a golden parachute when International Paper bought Champion.  I have attached her resume.  (If you can't open this, email me to that effect and I'll fax this.) How goes it with Breathed? - Elizabeth Stolpe.max 
As we discussed....... as much flesh as we can put on this by midday tommorrow would be quite helpful. I would think there are significant aggregation opportunities available to us once this is implemented. Let me know what else you need from me. Thanks. 
Attached is list for Bush's transition advisory  teams- notably, we're absent from all but Commerce(Sandherr) and Energy(Lay). 
Can we make it happen? 
I think this looks good and is more than sufficient. Thanks. 
Attached is a version of the Stanley statement which I have revised following our discussion with Glenn Leslie.  As I looked at it, I didn't think that any changes to the text were  required and that what was needed was an introductory note explaining the purpose and intended use of the statement. Let me know what you think and if you think any further changes are needed. Thanks, Aleck 
I hope this one is okay. Lisa. 
Electric Utility Industry 
Final version. 
Electric Utility Industry FYI 
Electric Utility Industry Joe, Linda Robertson and Joe Hartsoe of Enron asked me to forward to you the attached comments and answers of Enron on the subject document.  It is in WordPerfect 8.  If you need to have it converted to another format, please let me know: 202-828-5851.  Hope all is well and congratulations on landing a position with LeBoeuf. Dan - 0135652.01 
Great news and congrats! Robert Hemstock@ECT 11/26/2000 01:19 AM 
Rick, You will recall Steve Kean participated in a conference call on Nov 14 with John Lavorato et al to discuss emergency Pool Rule changes that the Power Pool intended to implement in two days.  We developed a 5 point action plan to deal with the proposed Power Pool rule changes that would have a significant impact on the value of Enron's PPA investment in Alberta. By way of update to Steve, you may wish to brief him that: 1) It appears the Power Pool will not proceed with the rule change designed to exclude importers from setting pool price.  They will proceed with dispatch risk rule changes but we have given input on those too and I am optimistic that Enron will be able to live with these rule changes, the final wording of which we should see on Monday, 2) We  have set up a meeting with the Minister of Resource Development (you, Rob Milnthorp and I will attend) on December 11 to encourage the Alberta Government to stay the course, and 3) This week we will finalize our ""Lessons from other Jurisdictions"" document (that Steve sent me materials to include in) and will provide it to the Alberta Government and Power Pool and then follow up with them. 
The attached memo provides an update on the status of the Power Pool's further consideration of the proposed rule changes.  In summary, it appears the Pool will not proceed with the proposal to exclude import offers from setting pool price but will recommend a rule that reduces ability of suppliers to become price takers on volumes that were originally priced too high to clear the merit order.  I will receive more specifics on the dispatch risk rule change on Monday. Regards, Rob 
EPSA's california story. 
- Updated California The Real Story 1-01.doc 
FYI 
Rick, Thanks for the message. Sorry for not getting back to you before. Easter is a holiday in Venezuela and we got two days off. I am certainly involved in the domestic portion of the project, lobbying and educating Venezuelan authorities on its benefits in particular, and the benefits of an open and transparent market in general. I am working closely with Emilio Vicens and Guido Caranti who are leading the development of the project. The three of us have written extensive comments to regulations, have met on several opportunities with the regulator and with the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), making significant progress on this front, such as allowing to create a working group to study the project in detail. The actual creation is still pending, but we will bring this issue during a meeting scheduled this week. Politics surrounding this project are complicated. PDVSA has traditionally imposed its views on MEM, who rubberstamped all its decisions. With the Chavez Administration, things have changed dramatically, almost paralizing every PDVSA initiative. Since PDVSA is the one that really needs to obtain the permit to supply the gas, PDVSA was ""in charge"" of dealing with MEM. Given this environment, and once the commercial terms with PDVSA were in place, Enron decided (of course, with PDVSA's approval) to be proactive, starting a demonstration tour of the project to capture MEM's and the regulator's interests. Moreover, the initiative to involve the USG started with a conversation that Joe Hillings and I had during the GA meeting at the Woodlands. He requested a one pager summarizing the project to be presented to the USG for its inclusion in Bush's agenda, during the meeting that Chavez and Bush would have during the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas Summit in Canada this month. Lisa Yoho got involved later, and then Tom Briggs and his DC team. I participated in the drafting of a previous document to the one you attached. The US embassy has been informed, but perhaps kept on the side because we are affraid that its involvement might backfire. The relationsahip between the USG and Venezuela have been antagonistic due to OPEC's policies, and the political leftist leaning of the Chavez Administration. We are selling this project as a Venezuelan project, that will advance Venezuelan interests (more than US interests), and so far has worked. I don't mean that the effort to include this project in Bush's agenda will have the same fate, because the US Embassy deals at lower levels and the message doesn't get to Chavez, who is the real sponsor of the project. Lower levels, except people at PDVSA-Gas, are in a neutral to slight opposition stance (recent changes in MEM and PDVSA might have aligned these interests). I hope this background info helped understand the dynamics associated with the Jose LNG project. Please feel free to let me know if you need additional information. My best regards, ALF Richard Shapiro 04/12/2001 11:01 AM 
How involved are you on this? 
Please find attached a brief outline of the Jose LNG project. Eric will call later this afternoon to discuss. Thanks, Jonathan 
Here are some initial reactions and questions to the CAISO market stabilization plan, which is attached. Give me or Sue Mara your comments and then we can turn it into message points for  media / advocacy folks. In addition to reviewing the plan, I listened in to part of a stakeholder call that occured Friday 10 a.m. PST. DRAFT MESSAGE POINTS: With limited exceptions, the plan does nothing to increase supply or decrease 
Ditto Palmer's comments. Jeff Brown 09/27/99 03:20 PM 
Attached is the draft press release prepared by EEI announcing the joint effort with our coalition (CUBR).  I need your comments/questions/concerns by close of business on Sept. 29. Thanks, Jeff 
Can we do? 
Sam tells me (confirmed by Sierra) that the Governor is expected to make an announcement about the market opening date, etc.,, by this Wednesday.   Can we get Ken Lay to make a call early this week? I've attached some message points and a backgrounder.    Page me if you need to chat. 
I think the first paragraph is gratuitous and constitutes bad faith. Paul Kaufman@ECT 07/10/2000 05:07 PM 
We're communicating our objections to the first paragraph in writing to Sierra.   I'll try again to get hold of Oldham and Ponn. Page me if you need me.  I'm in the office all afternoon. 
Rich, I am on a leave from LeBoeuf and working on the Transition Team as part of the Energy Policy Group for the next few weeks.  We request Enron's views on electricity issues.  I regret the short notice and tight deadline for your response (Monday COB), but time is short and there is a need to flesh out Administration positions and prepare nominees.  Please consider responding to the questions as an attachment to your response, which should use the requested template.  Until we move in the D.C. Transition office on Monday or so, the best way to reach me is cell phone (202-255-6803) or email. Regards. 
There appears to be a pattern forming.  The administration seems to make a= =20 scene just prior to large events (e.g., Davis' letters calling for wholesal= e=20 caps just prior to the ISO Board vote, and now this on the eve of the joint= =20 Assembly/Senate hearing scheduled for today). In other late-breaking news.  On the heels of this press conference, I=20 received late last evening from Loretta Lynch's chief of staff a copy of a= =20 proposed decision Lynch will release today reversing last Thursday's decisi= on=20 rejecting (0-5) retail price caps in San Diego.  The draft decision she=20 proposes would establish an ""interim"" retail rate cap only for SDG&E=20 residential and small commercial customers.  She proposes to use a ""balanci= ng=20 account"" to finance the cap.  Though it looks like the ""interim"" cap would= =20 extend through December 2003, there is one place in the decision that state= s=20 the cap should only extend through December 2000. ""Karen Edson"" <kedson@ns.net> on 08/09/2000 06:58:13 PM 
Governor Davis held a press conference today at which he accused ""out-of-state generators"" of price gouging and market manipulation.  He called on FERC to expedite their investigation of the market and to provide for consumer rebates if FERC cannot conclude that California prices are 
FYI- Terry is trying, at least with me. 
We used the BIT threat once before when they tried to re-trade TGS's rates in violation of the sales agreement. George Wasaff  can give you all of the details. This time we may have to go all of the way and litigate.  Tax issues in Argentina have also killed trading.  The problem is that the constitution empowers the states with all kinds of taxing authority so if you want changes in policies you have to have a constitutional amendment.  You can imagine the eagerness of politicians to take on that battle. I will be setting up some quality time with you the week of the 21st.  Again, congratulations. This is an exciting and complex part of the world and I can't think of anyone better to bring some focusand results here. 
Terry, here is the summary of the dispute.  Let me know if you would like any additional information, or if would would like me to put this into memo form. Argentine law imposes a stamp tax on written contracts.  In the past several years, the provincial governments of several of the provinces have, in an effort to raise desperately needed revenues, adopted a new and broader interpretation of the tax's application.  These provinces--Rio Negro, Neuquen, and Santa Cruz--have sought to apply this interpretation retroactively, resulting in the imposition of staggering assessments.  For TGS, the Enron company (40% owned) most affected, the assessments total $153 million in taxes, $172 million in interest, and $208 million in fines.  (See attached chart for breakdown). To date, court challenges to the taxes have been unsuccessful.  TGS has pending before the Argentine federal Supreme Court an application to declare the taxes unconstitutional and unlawful, but the Court has, as yet, not acted.  Meanwhile, the provinces are free to attempt to collect the taxes, by levy if necessary. The federal government has, in documents filed in another case, expressed the view that the imposition of stamp taxes in the manner folowed by the provinces is illegal.  Energas has also expressed its view that the taxes are illegal.  The federal Supreme Court, however, has recently denied an application (filed by another company) to enjoin collection of the taxes. On November 23, 1999, Enron notified the federal government that it regarded the imposition of these taxes as in violation of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between Argentina and the U.S.  Since that notification, representatives of Enron and the government have held several meetings. Substantive discussions, however, have not yet begun.  The Treaty mandates a six-month cooling off period before arbitration can be initiated.  If the negotiations with the government are unsuccessful, Enron intends to file an arbitration with the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in Washington, D.C.  By way of information, Endesa currently has an arbitration underway at ICSID challenging the taxes, presumably under a BIT between Spain or Chile and Argentina. 
Please note, the revised matrix sent minutes ago has been revised once again.  Please utilize the ""3rd Revision"" (noted at bottom right hand corner of page) Critical Path Matrix which is attached to this e:mail. Thanks gngr 
We need to discuss. 
Rick, As per your request -- please see the attached proposed electricity budget. Thanks, Carolyn 
Here is the revised presentation. 
On balance , this is a good thing- not great, but Barbara and Roy did a great job to get the improvements they got- also, the seccuritization is good for project motown assets. 
Late yesterday evening the Michigan House of Representatives approved the package of electric restructuring bills, namely SB937 (vote of 72 -35) and SB1253 (vote of 73 - 35).  The bills now go back to the Senate where the changes made by the House are expected to be agreed to.  If this occurs, which we expect it will, the bill will be signed by the Governor this weekend and take immediate effect. Attached is an initial summary of SB937 as passed by the House.  The House accepted approximately 7 amendments on the floor.  This summary may be updated should these amendments have any real impact on the bill for Enron. Our initial assessment is that they do not - Eric Schneidewind and I are meeting first thing Thursday morning to review them carefully.  We will keep you updated. Finally, regarding the issue of being subject to acquiring local franchises as a condition of doing business in municipalities in Michigan:  You will recall that we had language inserted into the bill in the Senate which declared that Alternative Electric Suppliers would not be considered public utilities.  This language would have deleted the requirement that we obtain local franchises.  However, the Governor had made a deal with the MI Municipal League that this issue would not be resolved in this legislation. (This deal I believe was struck in the context of various other issues pending among the legislature, governor and municipal league).  Late yesterday, Senate Leader DeGrow came out in support of an amendment to exclude schools (elementary, secondary, community colleges, universities, etc...) from the local franchise for purposes of aggregation -- thus upsetting the status quo which had been agreed to by the Governor and Municipal League.  Senator DeGrow was firm in his support and said that in order for the Senate to agree to House changes, this language had to be added.  Well, the language was not added in the House --- due to overall confusion.  So, we are going to talk with Senator DeGrow this morning to urge him to go forward with the Senate agreeing to the House changes in the bill and to consider the schools amendment in the context of exempting all Alternative Electric Suppliers from local franchise requirements.  A bill or amendment to this effect can be handled during the September session. Customer groups are also going to do the same thing.  The Govenror supports our position on this issue and we believe we have the momentum to get this done when the legislature comes back in September. Roy and I are available today if you have any questions.  You can reach Roy at 630-654-6472. I can be reached this morning at 614-306-4359 and this afternoon at 614-760-7472. 
I agree w/ Mary and made this point earlier. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 12:22 PM 
I'm not sure whether we want Hoecker to make the fourth point.  What do others think? 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
Can you all prepare briefing paper for Ken on Oliver as well as those we don't support? Thanks. 
OK Keith Miceli@ENRON 08/10/2000 06:04 PM 
Task Team Members:  Attached is Draft # 3 of the Summer Stakeholder letter. It incorporates changes recommended by Jim Bannantine and Rick Shapiro. Please send me your input by COB tomorrow, Friday, August 11, so I can finalize and forward to Dick.  Regards,  Keith 
I think these are quite good...the missing piece, I would argue, that we need to include is a talking point on the need for FERC to focus significant resources on the identification and elimination of market power in electricity markets and the need to encourage the development of distributed generation and more effective demand - side response mechanisms , partly in response to market power concerns. This is a huge issue in  getting wholesale electricity markets to work effectively, i.e; to create discernable  consumer welfare benefits.... and we ( Enron ) need to talk about this this issue and concern and talk about it frequently and w/ the same passion we talk about the need for open markets. Linda Robertson 04/04/2001 12:09 PM 
Steve, per our conversation yesterday in Houston, what do you think of these TPs?  To be used by both Ken and Jeff in conversations and meetings with the Bush Administration. - Skilling Talking Points.doc 
Take a look at attachment below for guidance in any discussion with Ristori= =20 next Wednesday re Bush energy policy statement and comparative aspects of E= C=20 green paper on sec. of supply. To remind you of what Loyola said on CNN=20 yesterday: - Agrees with need to re-evaluate role of nuclear plus future investment i= n=20 it . - Disagrees with weight given to supply side and indigenous sources,=20 compared with demand side and fuel diversity (also from external sources?) - Disagrees with exclusion of climate change considerations.=20 
Jan, please find a revised draft of the SoS paper following discussions wit= h Peter. I would be grateful if you could circulate it to the members of the electricity working group for comment by 30th April. Likewise could you als= o forward it to Ian Wood. (See attached file: efetsos.doc) Thanks Brian ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    DISCLAIMER    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This E-mail is private and confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. It is therefore only intended for the addressee(s). If you are not one of those persons you must not read, copy, store, disclose, use or distribute its contents. Please also contact the sender immediately and delete the original. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - efetsos.doc 
Here are some thoughts. 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontiereconomics.com> on 05/21/2001 09:19:19 AM Please respond to <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> 
Rick: Please find attached a short memo regarding last week's call with Jim and the Enron RTO team. It also has some thoughts on what we might cover with Steve K. at 2:00 p.m. CDT today. Some other time I would like to have a quick chat about how we move to the next step with the RTOs. It strikes me that there has been a real absence of cleare-headed thinking in the stakeholder chin-wagging sessions. If FERC will not impose a single design - on an abbreviated timeframe - is there another way to add some economic logic into the equation? Speak to you later... Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-05-21 SA Memo to Rick Shapiro on RTO conference call.doc 
Admittedly , ERCOT was handled poorly from a pleading submission perspective, but there is a legitimate discussion going on within the company that , at the very least,  will result in a more flexible approach to market structure and , perhaps( this is my preference) will result in a sharpening and refocusing of our positions that will acknowledge the necessity for an ""LMP""-like approach in real-time to achieve sufficient depth of liquidity.( with a keen focus on developing forward markets in transmission rights). Airing our differences and doubts externally creates absolutely no benefit - At the end of the day, we're here ( no matter where we end up on this issue) to enhance the company's commercial success, not to win an ideological battle. I understand and value the passion people in our group bring to their work... I don't want to lose that ""fire"", but merely want to assure that it is properly directed. We will resolve this issue shortly and am quite  sure we will all work hard to ensure uniformity of message at that time. Susan J Mara 02/21/2001 06:15 PM 
Ziad   and Elena and Diane and Alex, It is not exactly true -- but I can see how people got that idea.  Enron has decided to withdraw the filings we made in ERCOT. Our position on the ERCOT market structure is being reviewed. Enron continually goes through a process of reviewing its policies to make sure they are consistent with our business needs.  I can tell you that there are some strong supporters of Hogan's policies INSIDE Enron now and these supporters are finding an ear. Currently, we are reviewing the positions we are taking on market structure in ERCOT and the east.  We have to ensure we are practical -- from a business point of view -- and not being just religious about our views.  Probably the number one concern of the business people is the ability to have a deep, liquid market for trading.  I believe that much of the discussion has focused on the ways in which we can achieve such a market. After our review of ERCOT, Enron may indeed support a PJM-like structure for the real-time market, but the filings we make will likely not imply that this approach be implemented everywhere.  I expect that we will be free to support different approaches in different parts of the country, depending on the evolution of the markets in each location. What does this mean for our position in California?  So far, nothing.  We are standing firm on our California position, supporting the ISO and stakeholder-approved approach for congestion management, and do not have any plans to make new proposals. Further, we have the support of the Traders on this. Please feel free to call with any concerns. Believe me, I'm having just as hard of a time working through this as you all are. Sue Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 ""Alaywan, Ziad"" <ZAlaywan@caiso.com> 02/21/2001 01:12 PM 
For your review: 
Hardcopies also to follow. 
Please find attached Section I from the 4/6 draft of the IM. - #251862 v1 - SECTION 1.doc 
When do we want to get together to call Seabron w/  feedback? 
Jim/Rick/Steve: Please see the attached draft. I think I have everything in there we discussed. Sorry I this has been slower than planned -as I mentioned before I have been facing a family medical problem. I will be out of the office for much of the next two days. I can be reached at (617) 513-5904 (cellphone) or via email. I should be back in the office full-time from Thursday a.m. Cheers Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-04-23 SA Draft policy paper for review.doc 
What time is call and what is #? 
California) 
California) Rick, Here are the documents that Peter has prepared for Mark Frevert. Nailia 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
California) Forwarding these to you (you received second from Pamela but not the first) in anticipation of our conf. call tomorrow about Ken's speech in Majorca on July 7. 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
Can we review over weekend- I'll ask Maureen to schedule an hour for the 3 of us on Monday. 
Please see attached. We have tried to develop five basic market objectives, show why these critical given Enron's strategic position, and describe some of the market attributes that follow from the positions. I think these attributes will lead directly to (at least our) proposed ""ideal"" RTO structure. We can cut down some of the background discussion if you wish to circulate it to any other audiences within the company. But I wanted you guys to have a sense of where we are coming from with respect to some of the conclusions. Unless instructed otherwise I will continue to circulate documents only to the two of you, and you can forward to others as you see fit. Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com - 01-03-01 SA Draft paper on market objectives and attributes.doc 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
Dan , if he brings this one home, will be a hero. 
Rick As per your request, see attached summary regarding our activities in Brasil from Jan to April. Unfortunately we couldn't sent to you before due to a lot problems we are facing here. Thanks Sergio Assad 
This is to inform you the recent approval of the below commented rules in Argentina. If the economic and political environment gets calmer, these rules will be an important step in the power deregulation process an will allow us to reach some of the goals set for the regulatory group for this year. Goal 1- Eliminate or Increase fuel declaration caps: there will not be more fuel declarations but price declarations (Section 1, Resolution 135). The rules do not mention any cap for price declarations. Goal 2 - Daily fuel declaration: The 6 month fuel declaration was replaced by a daily price declaration (Section 1, Resolution 135). Goal 3 - Reduce or eliminate the obligation to physically back up agreements with end users or LDCs: According to the interpretation of AGEERA (Gencos Association) we would have been gotten also this objective and marketers may already buy or sell spot as long as the contract with the customer does not have supply guarantee (Section 5, Resolution 135). It is not clear in the rule wich is the condition for marketers to buy or sell spot. Now the Secretariat of Energy must issue its own Resolution to amend the technical Procedures in line with these rules. From the text of Resolution 135 (sections 3 c, 5 and considerations) there would be a good probability to reach other two goals through the Secretariat of Energy rule: Reduce minimum term for Output & Demand Marketing Agreements to one month Eliminate or reduce to 1 MW the threshold for Output Marketing Agreements Amr and I are asisting Buenos Aires Ofice to analize the new rules to eventually submit comments to the Secretariat of Energy. Attached is the document with the regulatory goals. Regards Guillermo 
In an attempt to further reduce State intervention in the power market, on June 19, the Executive Branch issued Decree 804/01 which completes the deregulation process of the power industry initiated in 1992, and amends Electricity Law 24.065.  On June 26 the Minister of Infrastructure issued Resolution 135/01 setting forth  the guidelines for the future regulation of the Decree. The Secretariat of Energy's resolution that will regulate the Decree will be effective as from September 1, 2001. All agents of the electric sector will be invited to comment the terms of regulatory decree, although such comments will be used for informational purposes and will not bind the Secretariat of Energy to make any changes whatsoever to its original document. Although Decree No 804/01 is effective as from today, there are doubts in the industry as to whether it will be abolished in the future by Congress.  The reason for this uncertainty is that such Decree was issued within the framework of the Competitivity Law, by which Congress delegated to the Executive Branch its  powers to legislate  specifically on changes required to transform the economy.  Although this Decree and the changes it fosters indirectly affect the economy, since the law it amends is not purely ""economical"", it may be questioned.  There is no term within which Congress may exercise this right. Please find a summary of the relevant changes below. Generators Remuneration: Forward Market: freely negotiated Spot Market:  only payment of ""hourly spot price"" at each node. Hourly Spot Price: determined by price offers based on demand and transportation constraints Daily Declarations The day before the daily dispatch, each Generator shall: declare its price offers for each  peak, shoulder and valley hour at its node; declare its maximum operating limits and minimum available capacity; offer all of its available capacity. 
Luiz. Thank you for your note.  We are still in the boxing ring!. The first round was won but we still have some more rounds to go. Next week is the consent, provably in two weeks we will discuss the regulatory obstacles.. Jose 
Topic I -- Amendment 4 We spent the morning perfecting Aditivo 4 with Furnas, to cover the situation where the commissioning plan did not go as scheduled. It was signed early afternoon and sent to Eletrobras. The Eletrobras Diretoria had not followed this issue closely and need legal clearance. Furnas and the Ministry (Perazzo) called to give it priority. Late at night we received word that the ""parecer"" (opinion) was ready and that it the Anex would  signed by Eletrobras next Monday and entered into their Board meeting next Tuesday. Petrobras sent us the letter we asked but took out of their version a key word ""only"". ""Only"" refers that they will not go after us for non-payment if Furnas does not pay. In the letter they also stated that they will commence the loading operation -- at their own risk - Saturday. This was requested by Perazzo to save logistical time because it takes three days to get to Cuiaba from the refinery. [Advised Laine of the situation to check Monday how many trucks were loaded and  in transit] We contacted Perazzo through Sergio Assad to get his word that there would not be a last minute hitch; otherwise, we may have to refuse to take the diesel and would create a BIG PR problem for all. Topic III - Consent Package (Opinions, Aditivo, Consent) Furnas came in with the list of issues they wanted to discuss. I instead insisted that we treat this meeting as a continuation of the MME meeting and follow the Agenda  by looking at the Consent document package -- actually go over the text -  that they find objectionable, and,  if it the text had a direct link with any of their issues, we would discuss and examine the relative positions. What they told me is what they have told me before, that some of the issues have nothing to do with the Consent but they want it as a condition to agree to the package. Which is fine to me, because it will make it clear to the government what we have been saying --- they want to change the deal. In Furnas' defense, I need to add that they feel they have been handed a bad contract  and they want regulatory relief, which it has been granted, on a case-by-case basis, in other deals. So part of their strategy is to force MME, or Aneel to provide some tariff relief. I asked them to list out  the key issues with the Consent-  Old-- a) the 90 days additional time (Furnas), b) The guarantee substitution at the time of privatization, c) the lenders involvement on contract changes ""we do not want to go to Washington to negotiate"" - Newer - d) giving up their right to ask Aneel to ""homologar"", ratify; rather than ""registrar"" contract changes [big risk for us] . I believe the have more direct issues. We go back to Rio Monday (another holiday down the drain) ..and Tuesday to complete the list -- Topic II -- Regulatory conflicts Jose 
? ? ? - Final pt1.doc - Final pt2.doc 
Please find attached a memo and powerpoint  presentation that memorializes the above-refrenced meeting. I would ask that Kevin and Tim forward this on to everyone in their group who should see it- we did'nt have a good list of names. Thanks and feel ree to call if you have any questions. 
Good news and bad news. First, the good news.  The DPUC issued a final compliance decision (attached) Thursday approving the ENA prices and removing the draft language that would have released special contract customers. The bad news is that we are falling behind in finalizing the agreements with UI.  Mostly this is due to unavailability of some of the UI personnel.  The one business issue that is causing a bit of concern on their end is a fear that they have promised us too much in the way of an option on their nuclear generation.  In any event, they have already made the commitments in our binding MOU.  This issue is not a deal breaker but it is contributing to the delay.  Right now we are scheduled to meet with them in NY Tuesday the 14th through Thursday the 16th.  As a result, I can not be in Houston on the 15th as planned.  I am, however, still trying to make it for the 16th.  Perhaps we can reschedule our meeting sometime on the 16th.  Fallon and I are meeting at 8:30 on the 17th to discuss the project also. 
Are you attending? This is a change- why? 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
telecommunication markets 
FYI 
telecommunication markets Rick, Here are some articles which examine the ineffectiveness of WTO agreement (1997) on the opening up of the telecommunication markets around the world. One of the major forthcoming issues is Japan's risk of tbeing aken to the WTO over its high access costs in the Japanese domestic market. Both the US and EU have been urging the Japanese to bring down the cost or face the consequences.  We are still waiting to see what will happen in Brussels? Whether the WTO have enough power to enforce its regulations would be a major factor in determining the its prowess in the future. best regards, xi xi 
Mitch, Don't kill me, just call. Attached are  revised slides, revised as follows: 1. Cover page adds ""OPUC"" and changes the date to today's date 2. The first bullet under the FERC timeline -- added statement that FERC order is more likely to be issued towards the end of the year 3. Under Additional Information Required -- included statement that the delivered price test on the Alturas Line should include various buyback options for Sierra from its divested generators 4. Under Issues to be Resolved -- consolidated three bullets into two discussing the potential impact California plays  on FERC's action on the merger 5. Deleted the bullet under the SEC slide stating that the SEC could begin considering the application before FERC  issues its final order -- we could not verify this with Joanne, and Sam Behrends said he thinks the SEC is unlikely to act on the application (due to workload) before FERC issues its order. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
Here  are the slides on PGE 
Enclosed is revised regulatory "" issues"" memo that  served as the basis for discussion at yesterday's regulatory  review  meeting--- the only outstanding issue , as I just communicated to Charles Still at Skadden, is confirmation of  the fact that there are no antitrust approvals required in South Korea relative to SK- that confirmation should be forthcoming from local counsel this evening.  Lisa- I assume you will see this gets to Bill Gathmann immediately so he can  forward on to regional general counsel for final sign-off. 
I agree with David- we should work these issues into our discussion w/ Luntz on Friday. I think Haug captured the issues we have to grapple with better than we've been able to thus far. 
Steve, thanks for the helpful materials. However, if the experience in overseas deregulating electricity markets where price increases and spikes have occurred is any precedent, we will need to have some more down-to-earth responses to a some of the potentially inflammatory issues facing the politicians: 1. When the prices spike, who reaps the windfall? Who sells that most expensive 1% of the kwh? Is it a careful planner or a lucky speculator or market manipulator? Someone is making a bunch of money off the screwed up system. Who is it, and why is that OK? 2. We do not allow people to inflate water prices to consumers in times of drought, or food prices in times of hurricanes or floods. Even gasoline price increases in periods of high demand are within 20%-30% of the base, not 2,5,10 or 100 times the average like spot electric prices. The issue isn't whether the system is broken or not or how bad partial regulation is or how 
As I promised this morning at the executive committee meeting, below are some talking points for your use. Overall message:  the market is working, regulation is not. In California, peak demand rose by 10% over the last 4 years while new capacity grew by only 2%.  But, as you would expect, the market responded by proposing 8,000MW of new generation - - more than enough to offset the peak demand growth.  The regulatory process, at both the state and local level, has failed to site this new generation.  The problem is regulation, not deregulation. When San Diego customers began experiencing the effects of higher prices, Enron responded with a fixed price which would have shielded San Diego customers from price volatility and provided prices below their current summer levels (Enron's price was about $55/MWH).  After publication of Enron's offer, nine other companies made offers.  Again, the market responded where regulation failed.  San Diego has not accepted any of these offers because of regulatory/legislative restrictions on its ability to buy outside of the PX (i.e. the spot market). In markets where siting is easier, suppliers have moved to build additional generation.  Enron built 3 plants in response to the 1998 price spikes. Those plants were planned, sited and built in less that 12 months - - in time for the summer of 1999.  Where regulatory hurdles are lower, the market responds. The solution to current pricing and reliability issues is more competition not reregulation.  Policy makers should: Open the transmission grid so that power can get from where it is to where it is needed. Expedite interconnection of new generation. Expedite siting of new facilities. Give customers a choice, so that they have better access to demand side solutions. Also attached is a more detailed discussion of California, prepared by Jeff Dasovich of our San Francisco office. 
Here's ad campaign that I found through Olivia( Davis's person in D.C.) ....if this is it , not so bad. 
Leaving voicemail with two comments: 1 ) Demand buydown: establish participation threshold of 20 kw...residential inclusion is unnecessary and will draw additional fire........2) Eliminating undue discrimination: we should make clear that non-discrimination means all uses of transmission system subject to FERC's jurisdiction shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Thanks. 
FYI 
I already sent this to Mary.  Some interesting quotes from Dick O'Neill.  Let mw know if any of you want to see Seabron's paper 
Trying this again.? Attached are Seabron's  Notes to the recent FERC meeting.? Please treat these as confidential and  not for public distribution. - 00-02-13 SA Memo on FERC meeting on market power.doc 
Can we discuss? 
Here's my effort to respond to the PRC discussion we had in Kohler. The criteria for evaluating folks is at the end of the presentation ... but I took the liberty to go a bit further and comprehensively address the PRC process.    Hope I didn't overstep my bounds .... I'm around today, as well as Monday (ENA meeting most of the day) and Tuesday, but then traveling in Reno, Las Vegas and San Francisco for the remainder of the week.   I'd welcome the opportunity to discuss the reasoning and rationale behind the document. As I said on my voice mail, I circulated the document to the attendees at Kohler (with the exception of Sue L. and Linda R.).  I've had feedback from a number of the attendees, but I can't call it a consensus document. As always, thanks for the opportunity to make suggestions like this. 
FYI 
What do you think? 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
Rich Shapiro requested this chart for Ken Lay. Thanks for Kristian for doing the heavy lifting. I have spruced up the chart a bit and turned into a Power Point chart.  Open the .xls file only if you want to modify the source data. Alan Comnes 
Attached is list for Bush's transition advisory  teams- notably, we're absent from all but Commerce(Sandherr) and Energy(Lay). 
I agree w/ chris's recommendation- you too? 
At his request, I met Lee Sachs, Assistant Treasury Secretary, who had requested the meeting after a brief conversation recently.  Lee said that senior-level negotiations led by Secretary Summers were initiated last week between the CFTC and SEC and that progress was being made on the single stock futures issue (the major issue postponing movement of the legislation). As you know, the House completed committee work on HR 4541 before it recessed.  The bill will now is pending before the Rules Committee where differences will be worked out between the three different Committee versions (Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking).  The Senate Agriculture Committee passed out the Senate version in July.  However, the bill is not moving quickly in the Senate due to Senator Phil Gramm's desire to see significant changes made to the legislation (not directly related to our energy language). Last week at the Republican Convention, I asked the Senator about the bill and he said they were working on it, but much needs to be changed for his support.  More telling perhaps, were Wendy Gramm's comments that she would rather the current bill die if a better bill can be passed next year. What this means is that we must, at the least, remove Senator Gramm's opposition to the bill to move the process and more importantly seek to gain his support of the legislation. Lee Sachs message was just that.  I told Lee that we shared his desire to move the legislation as long as it contains a full exclusion for all non-agriculture commodities (including metals).  He said that we would have a difficult time defending the metals provision politically. But, Lee said  ""we 
OK Keith Miceli@ENRON 08/10/2000 06:04 PM 
Task Team Members:  Attached is Draft # 3 of the Summer Stakeholder letter. It incorporates changes recommended by Jim Bannantine and Rick Shapiro. Please send me your input by COB tomorrow, Friday, August 11, so I can finalize and forward to Dick.  Regards,  Keith 
As the individual responsible within Enron Corp. for coordinating the analysis of regulatory transfer restriction issues in the above-referenced project, I wanted to give each of you a brief update, but more importantly, ask for your help in ensuring, as we move closer to the signing date, that we are fully coordinated on these issues and are prepared to act in a consistent and coordinated fashion across the regions as quickly as possible. Over the last several weeks, the regional general counsel offices, V&E (Bill Weiland), Skadden and myself have been talking to local counsel across the regions to make sure that we fully understand all of the regulatory transfer issues and that we also fully understand the implications of the regulatory transfer restrictions in the context of the ""ABC"" deal structure.  We have now largely completed that process and the conclusions reached during that process have been memorialized in various documents, including the ""ABC Matrix"" that many, if not all of you, have seen.  All that is remaining is confirmation on a South Korean competition agency issue and the completion of the analysis relative to the Wind assets in Europe regarding EU competition agency issues. Those two items should be completed by early next week.  We have also recently begun the process of preparing documents that will be necessary for the approval of the transfer of Elektro in Brazil...which brings me to the second issue, coordination and preparation. Having reached a critical juncture with the completition of virtually all of the regulatory analysis, the next step is to plan for the announcement of the transaction...more specifically, ensuring that regulatory/governmental communication assignments for both pre and post announcement are fully agreed upon and understood by all... and that the process of drafting the necessary requests for regulatory approval documents is agreed upon and begun as soon as possible.  To ensure that this all happens in a timely manner and with quality, I would like to request that one individual from each operating region and company be assigned as the point person so that I can have a single individual within each operating unit to go to that has the authority to put together the comprehensive regulatory transfer plan and the responsibility for assuring the execution of the plan, both during the periods of time leading up to signing and announcement and during the transition period leading up to closing.  I would respectfully ask that the names of these individuals be communicated to me by close of business Wednesday, August 16, 2000 to provide us sufficient time to address the work that lies before us.  I have taken the liberty of listing my suggestions for the responsible individuals (where I have suggestions) for the respective operating regions/companies, but these are only suggestions and I will defer to your choices.  Thank you for your assistance and if you have any questions, feel free to contact me at extension 33407 in Houston or by pager at 888-740-9949. Enron South America   Jose Bestard Enron Wind    Eric B. Newell India     Jane Wilson Apachi     Mike Dahlke 
FYI 
I guess because of the way the message was sent to me, I cannot include text in return, but responding to your question of what does Joe's last comment mean, presumably, it is that on these issues of WTO, I am not competent to advise you on them.  Leaving that aside, I further suspect that he sees me as the bette noir of the WTO ESC effort.  Finally, you might talk to Tom Briggs.  I think Joe has stood Tom's position on its head.  Joe has argued that we need to be in the ESC, because other things we care about like financial services regulation and e-commerce will be implicated.  He says Tom argues that we must liberalise energy to realise these objectives.  As I understand Tom (and he can speak for himself), if we do not get energy services liberalised (and the exclusion of third-party access is tantamount to not getting energy services liberalised) then the make-weight arguments about e-commerce and financial services fall away, at least as props/arguments for continuing the ESC.    talk to you later today   mcs 
I had shared my note to you with Peter.  Thought you would find his reply comment of interest.  Peter and I are both very frustrated/disappointed (you probably knew that), but I think Joe knows it, too, which further explains his derogatory comment about us in London.  mcs 
Raggett intervention likely attributable to Exxon again. I warned Joe and Bob Fisher about their insidious influence in April when I went to Washington. Also at that time Bob, Chris and I talked in detail about how to get TPA onto agenda through a coda or ancillary agreement to basic service provision/ investment categorisation, as happened for telecom in GATS. Who took their eye off the ball? Mark Schroeder 10/24/2000 05:35 PM 
my note, and the attachment to which it refers, are self-explanatory, and have obviously made me very unhappy.  What a waste of time and money by Joe!   mcs 
Tom Briggs was good enough to forward to me a piece of correspondence that Joe Hillings apparently shared with him.  My lack of enthusiasm for our WTO initiative, I know, has hardly been masked, but, frankly, what is contained in the incoming letter, below, I find quite disconcerting.  I have argued that in our key markets, e.g., Europe, Japan, etc. (I am assuming we do not need it in the USA, even today) the WTO initiative, i.e., liberalisation of energy siervices, would be of little value by the time it was implemented.  I had, apparently mistakenly, at least assumed that liberalisation of energy siervices at a minimum meant third-party access to transmission networks.  If not, then what the heck are we doing in this fight.  BUT, as you will see from the incoming, below, when Paul Hennemeyer, of my team here in London, joined Joe and Bob Fisher in Geneva to do a presentation on liberalisation of energy services in WTO, it provoked a letter, to which Joe responded, saying that the US Energy Services Coalition has NEVER taken a position on thrid party access, and it is doubtful they could agree to such a position (Joe agreed, and said this was just an Enron company position!).  You can probably guess my position on this, but I thought I would forward this to you for your information, and, if warranted, follow up, as the conversations we have had have never led me to believe that either of you thought we were pursuing a WTO initiative which did NOT involve third party access.   thanks  mcs 
I agree with David- we should work these issues into our discussion w/ Luntz on Friday. I think Haug captured the issues we have to grapple with better than we've been able to thus far. 
Steve, thanks for the helpful materials. However, if the experience in overseas deregulating electricity markets where price increases and spikes have occurred is any precedent, we will need to have some more down-to-earth responses to a some of the potentially inflammatory issues facing the politicians: 1. When the prices spike, who reaps the windfall? Who sells that most expensive 1% of the kwh? Is it a careful planner or a lucky speculator or market manipulator? Someone is making a bunch of money off the screwed up system. Who is it, and why is that OK? 2. We do not allow people to inflate water prices to consumers in times of drought, or food prices in times of hurricanes or floods. Even gasoline price increases in periods of high demand are within 20%-30% of the base, not 2,5,10 or 100 times the average like spot electric prices. The issue isn't whether the system is broken or not or how bad partial regulation is or how 
As I promised this morning at the executive committee meeting, below are some talking points for your use. Overall message:  the market is working, regulation is not. In California, peak demand rose by 10% over the last 4 years while new capacity grew by only 2%.  But, as you would expect, the market responded by proposing 8,000MW of new generation - - more than enough to offset the peak demand growth.  The regulatory process, at both the state and local level, has failed to site this new generation.  The problem is regulation, not deregulation. When San Diego customers began experiencing the effects of higher prices, Enron responded with a fixed price which would have shielded San Diego customers from price volatility and provided prices below their current summer levels (Enron's price was about $55/MWH).  After publication of Enron's offer, nine other companies made offers.  Again, the market responded where regulation failed.  San Diego has not accepted any of these offers because of regulatory/legislative restrictions on its ability to buy outside of the PX (i.e. the spot market). In markets where siting is easier, suppliers have moved to build additional generation.  Enron built 3 plants in response to the 1998 price spikes. Those plants were planned, sited and built in less that 12 months - - in time for the summer of 1999.  Where regulatory hurdles are lower, the market responds. The solution to current pricing and reliability issues is more competition not reregulation.  Policy makers should: Open the transmission grid so that power can get from where it is to where it is needed. Expedite interconnection of new generation. Expedite siting of new facilities. Give customers a choice, so that they have better access to demand side solutions. Also attached is a more detailed discussion of California, prepared by Jeff Dasovich of our San Francisco office. 
FYI 
Last Thursday, I made the first attached presentation to the FERC Staff at the power marketer's meeting on the FERC's investigation of the wholesale market in the West (and in particular California).  Ellen Wolf (of Tabors Caramanis) and I created this presentation building on previous presentations by Tim Belden and Dave Parquet.  In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: There isn't much FERC can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market.  We discouraged FERC from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the California and the rest of the West as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the Commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The IOUs have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity.  They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at ISO real time prices.  My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The Commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in Powerpoint.  When you do, you will find there are many ""hidden"" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to Staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (Scott Miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than Staff's previous meetings with the IOUs and the generators.  Based on the numerous phone calls I've been getting, the Staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that Tim sent to Scott Miller on Friday.  Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message.  On Friday, Tim talked to Scott and answered some additional questions.  Tim said that Enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory PX buying requirement and would like the IOUs to be able to buy from Enron Online.  He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . 
Take a look at attachment below for guidance in any discussion with Ristori= =20 next Wednesday re Bush energy policy statement and comparative aspects of E= C=20 green paper on sec. of supply. To remind you of what Loyola said on CNN=20 yesterday: - Agrees with need to re-evaluate role of nuclear plus future investment i= n=20 it . - Disagrees with weight given to supply side and indigenous sources,=20 compared with demand side and fuel diversity (also from external sources?) - Disagrees with exclusion of climate change considerations.=20 
Jan, please find a revised draft of the SoS paper following discussions wit= h Peter. I would be grateful if you could circulate it to the members of the electricity working group for comment by 30th April. Likewise could you als= o forward it to Ian Wood. (See attached file: efetsos.doc) Thanks Brian ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    DISCLAIMER    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This E-mail is private and confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. It is therefore only intended for the addressee(s). If you are not one of those persons you must not read, copy, store, disclose, use or distribute its contents. Please also contact the sender immediately and delete the original. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - efetsos.doc 
Leaving voicemail with two comments: 1 ) Demand buydown: establish participation threshold of 20 kw...residential inclusion is unnecessary and will draw additional fire........2) Eliminating undue discrimination: we should make clear that non-discrimination means all uses of transmission system subject to FERC's jurisdiction shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Thanks. 
Rick, Below is the transcript of the story you asked about this morning.  I have a video copy of it as well that you can view upon your return.  Thanks, Ann 
BROADCAST TRANSCRIPT Video Monitoring Services of America, Inc. 10260 Westheimer Houston, TX 77042 (713) 789-1635 (713) 789-0980 (FAX) Date      September 07, 2000 Time      08:00 AM - 08:30 AM Station   CNN Headline News Location  Network Program   Headline News Jacque Reid, anchor: To save money, consumers are finding ways to cut down on costly electricity bills.  Greg Clarking reports on how to get better rates using the Internet. Greg Clarking reporting: Helene Baldizzone, a New York City artist, was growing increasingly concerned about rising electricity costs, so she signed up with start-up electricity retailer SmartEnergy.com. Helene Baldizzone (SmartEnergy.com Customer):  I thought, OK, well, let's try somebody else because the bills had been going up little by little every month with ConEdison.  So I thought, well, I have nothing to lose at this point. Clarking:  Baldizzone is happy with SmartEnergy where she has locked in a rate of 8.3 cents per kilowatt hour.  She was paying as much as 13.3 cents per kilowatt hour before switching.  SmartEnergy says its goal is to let consumers take advantage of the sometimes confusing options created by deregulation of the energy industry. Gautam Chandra (President/CEO, SmartEnergy.com):  What we are doing is taking that confusion away by being the agents for the customer in terms of looking at the best prices, locking in the best prices for them. Clarking:  SmartEnergy, currently available in New York City, will be available in all twenty-four deregulated states within the next few months. There are a number of electricity suppliers in each of the deregulated states and consumers can save a lot of money by doing a little research. Rick Cowles (Energyland.com):  Don't sit back and just hang in there and wait and see what's going to happen a year or two down the road because you're going to find that electric rates have definitely changed in a year or two and it may not be to your advantage. Clarking:  To find out what energy options are available in your area, you can call your state's public utility commission or click on to Energyland.com for a complete list of energy suppliers and their rates. Cowles:  Right now, consumers are kind of in a unique position where they do have the ability to go in and see some immediate savings. Baldizzone:  It's easy.  But I like especially saving the money.  It's better in my pocket. Clarking:  That's Your Money.  Greg Clarking, CNN, New York. # # # For a videocassette(TV) or audiocassette(radio) of this news segment contact your nearest VMS office Material supplied by Video Monitoring Services may only be used for internal review, analysis or research.  Any publication, re-broadcast or public display for profit is forbidden. 
Are you attending? This is a change- why? 
2 e-mails attached 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
Mark, Your site is finally activated. Real interesting. Worth a look Link to the DWR Contracts. http://www.sco.ca.gov/power_page/contract_info.htm Ban An interesting article too: Connell: Power cost twice Davis' figure July 6, 2001 By JOHN HOWARD The Orange County Register SACRAMENTO -- The average cost of electricity purchased under $43 billion of worth of state contracts is actually more than double the amount reported by Gov. Gray Davis' administration, state Controller Kathleen Connell said Thursday. Connell said her staff's analysis put the per-megawatt average at $170, compared with $69 to $79 estimated by Davis. Connell stopped short of suggesting that the higher cost could drive another increase in rates, although consumer groups said the higher amount likely would require some future increase. The controller, who writes the state's checks, said her figures assume fixed prices for natural gas over the duration of the contracts, which range from a few months to 20 years. The administration, noting that nearly half its contracts are pegged to the fluctuating market price of natural gas, said costs on many of the contracts would decline over time. Consumer groups were skeptical of the administration's numbers. ""You could cut these numbers in various ways and make different averages, long-range or short-range contracts, peak power or nonpeak, and probably either average could be defended mathematically,"" said Nettie Hoge of The Utility Reform Network. ""We can't tell you whether it's $69 or $170 - the 
Here is the revised presentation. 
Can't open- meeting w/ Breathitt went well .. still alot of work to do- will keep you  advised. Ralph Reed <ralph@censtrat.com> on 09/08/2000 12:14:30 PM 
Here's another good candidate for head of the DC office you guys may want to sit down with.  Elizabeth Stolpe headed the DC office for Champion Industries, is highly respected on the Hill and the political community, and got a golden parachute when International Paper bought Champion.  I have attached her resume.  (If you can't open this, email me to that effect and I'll fax this.) How goes it with Breathed? - Elizabeth Stolpe.max 
Rick As per your request, see attached summary regarding our activities in Brasil from Jan to April. Unfortunately we couldn't sent to you before due to a lot problems we are facing here. Thanks Sergio Assad 
This is to inform you the recent approval of the below commented rules in Argentina. If the economic and political environment gets calmer, these rules will be an important step in the power deregulation process an will allow us to reach some of the goals set for the regulatory group for this year. Goal 1- Eliminate or Increase fuel declaration caps: there will not be more fuel declarations but price declarations (Section 1, Resolution 135). The rules do not mention any cap for price declarations. Goal 2 - Daily fuel declaration: The 6 month fuel declaration was replaced by a daily price declaration (Section 1, Resolution 135). Goal 3 - Reduce or eliminate the obligation to physically back up agreements with end users or LDCs: According to the interpretation of AGEERA (Gencos Association) we would have been gotten also this objective and marketers may already buy or sell spot as long as the contract with the customer does not have supply guarantee (Section 5, Resolution 135). It is not clear in the rule wich is the condition for marketers to buy or sell spot. Now the Secretariat of Energy must issue its own Resolution to amend the technical Procedures in line with these rules. From the text of Resolution 135 (sections 3 c, 5 and considerations) there would be a good probability to reach other two goals through the Secretariat of Energy rule: Reduce minimum term for Output & Demand Marketing Agreements to one month Eliminate or reduce to 1 MW the threshold for Output Marketing Agreements Amr and I are asisting Buenos Aires Ofice to analize the new rules to eventually submit comments to the Secretariat of Energy. Attached is the document with the regulatory goals. Regards Guillermo 
In an attempt to further reduce State intervention in the power market, on June 19, the Executive Branch issued Decree 804/01 which completes the deregulation process of the power industry initiated in 1992, and amends Electricity Law 24.065.  On June 26 the Minister of Infrastructure issued Resolution 135/01 setting forth  the guidelines for the future regulation of the Decree. The Secretariat of Energy's resolution that will regulate the Decree will be effective as from September 1, 2001. All agents of the electric sector will be invited to comment the terms of regulatory decree, although such comments will be used for informational purposes and will not bind the Secretariat of Energy to make any changes whatsoever to its original document. Although Decree No 804/01 is effective as from today, there are doubts in the industry as to whether it will be abolished in the future by Congress.  The reason for this uncertainty is that such Decree was issued within the framework of the Competitivity Law, by which Congress delegated to the Executive Branch its  powers to legislate  specifically on changes required to transform the economy.  Although this Decree and the changes it fosters indirectly affect the economy, since the law it amends is not purely ""economical"", it may be questioned.  There is no term within which Congress may exercise this right. Please find a summary of the relevant changes below. Generators Remuneration: Forward Market: freely negotiated Spot Market:  only payment of ""hourly spot price"" at each node. Hourly Spot Price: determined by price offers based on demand and transportation constraints Daily Declarations The day before the daily dispatch, each Generator shall: declare its price offers for each  peak, shoulder and valley hour at its node; declare its maximum operating limits and minimum available capacity; offer all of its available capacity. 
Luiz. Thank you for your note.  We are still in the boxing ring!. The first round was won but we still have some more rounds to go. Next week is the consent, provably in two weeks we will discuss the regulatory obstacles.. Jose 
Topic I -- Amendment 4 We spent the morning perfecting Aditivo 4 with Furnas, to cover the situation where the commissioning plan did not go as scheduled. It was signed early afternoon and sent to Eletrobras. The Eletrobras Diretoria had not followed this issue closely and need legal clearance. Furnas and the Ministry (Perazzo) called to give it priority. Late at night we received word that the ""parecer"" (opinion) was ready and that it the Anex would  signed by Eletrobras next Monday and entered into their Board meeting next Tuesday. Petrobras sent us the letter we asked but took out of their version a key word ""only"". ""Only"" refers that they will not go after us for non-payment if Furnas does not pay. In the letter they also stated that they will commence the loading operation -- at their own risk - Saturday. This was requested by Perazzo to save logistical time because it takes three days to get to Cuiaba from the refinery. [Advised Laine of the situation to check Monday how many trucks were loaded and  in transit] We contacted Perazzo through Sergio Assad to get his word that there would not be a last minute hitch; otherwise, we may have to refuse to take the diesel and would create a BIG PR problem for all. Topic III - Consent Package (Opinions, Aditivo, Consent) Furnas came in with the list of issues they wanted to discuss. I instead insisted that we treat this meeting as a continuation of the MME meeting and follow the Agenda  by looking at the Consent document package -- actually go over the text -  that they find objectionable, and,  if it the text had a direct link with any of their issues, we would discuss and examine the relative positions. What they told me is what they have told me before, that some of the issues have nothing to do with the Consent but they want it as a condition to agree to the package. Which is fine to me, because it will make it clear to the government what we have been saying --- they want to change the deal. In Furnas' defense, I need to add that they feel they have been handed a bad contract  and they want regulatory relief, which it has been granted, on a case-by-case basis, in other deals. So part of their strategy is to force MME, or Aneel to provide some tariff relief. I asked them to list out  the key issues with the Consent-  Old-- a) the 90 days additional time (Furnas), b) The guarantee substitution at the time of privatization, c) the lenders involvement on contract changes ""we do not want to go to Washington to negotiate"" - Newer - d) giving up their right to ask Aneel to ""homologar"", ratify; rather than ""registrar"" contract changes [big risk for us] . I believe the have more direct issues. We go back to Rio Monday (another holiday down the drain) ..and Tuesday to complete the list -- Topic II -- Regulatory conflicts Jose 
California) 
California) Rick, Here are the documents that Peter has prepared for Mark Frevert. Nailia 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
California) Forwarding these to you (you received second from Pamela but not the first) in anticipation of our conf. call tomorrow about Ken's speech in Majorca on July 7. 
California) Michael, These are the documents that Peter promised to give to you for Mark Frevert. He has now handed them to him in person but asked me to transmit them electronically to you, as well as Eric and Ross. Nailia 
FYI 
Ditto Palmer's comments. Jeff Brown 09/27/99 03:20 PM 
Attached is the draft press release prepared by EEI announcing the joint effort with our coalition (CUBR).  I need your comments/questions/concerns by close of business on Sept. 29. Thanks, Jeff 
Can we do? 
Sam tells me (confirmed by Sierra) that the Governor is expected to make an announcement about the market opening date, etc.,, by this Wednesday.   Can we get Ken Lay to make a call early this week? I've attached some message points and a backgrounder.    Page me if you need to chat. 
Can we make it happen? 
Here are some thoughts. 
Can we discuss? 
Here's my effort to respond to the PRC discussion we had in Kohler. The criteria for evaluating folks is at the end of the presentation ... but I took the liberty to go a bit further and comprehensively address the PRC process.    Hope I didn't overstep my bounds .... I'm around today, as well as Monday (ENA meeting most of the day) and Tuesday, but then traveling in Reno, Las Vegas and San Francisco for the remainder of the week.   I'd welcome the opportunity to discuss the reasoning and rationale behind the document. As I said on my voice mail, I circulated the document to the attendees at Kohler (with the exception of Sue L. and Linda R.).  I've had feedback from a number of the attendees, but I can't call it a consensus document. As always, thanks for the opportunity to make suggestions like this. 
Thoughts? 
Tend to agree?????????????????  What does that mean????????????????????????????????????????????????????/ 
Good news and bad news. First, the good news.  The DPUC issued a final compliance decision (attached) Thursday approving the ENA prices and removing the draft language that would have released special contract customers. The bad news is that we are falling behind in finalizing the agreements with UI.  Mostly this is due to unavailability of some of the UI personnel.  The one business issue that is causing a bit of concern on their end is a fear that they have promised us too much in the way of an option on their nuclear generation.  In any event, they have already made the commitments in our binding MOU.  This issue is not a deal breaker but it is contributing to the delay.  Right now we are scheduled to meet with them in NY Tuesday the 14th through Thursday the 16th.  As a result, I can not be in Houston on the 15th as planned.  I am, however, still trying to make it for the 16th.  Perhaps we can reschedule our meeting sometime on the 16th.  Fallon and I are meeting at 8:30 on the 17th to discuss the project also. 
Great news and congrats! Robert Hemstock@ECT 11/26/2000 01:19 AM 
Rick, You will recall Steve Kean participated in a conference call on Nov 14 with John Lavorato et al to discuss emergency Pool Rule changes that the Power Pool intended to implement in two days.  We developed a 5 point action plan to deal with the proposed Power Pool rule changes that would have a significant impact on the value of Enron's PPA investment in Alberta. By way of update to Steve, you may wish to brief him that: 1) It appears the Power Pool will not proceed with the rule change designed to exclude importers from setting pool price.  They will proceed with dispatch risk rule changes but we have given input on those too and I am optimistic that Enron will be able to live with these rule changes, the final wording of which we should see on Monday, 2) We  have set up a meeting with the Minister of Resource Development (you, Rob Milnthorp and I will attend) on December 11 to encourage the Alberta Government to stay the course, and 3) This week we will finalize our ""Lessons from other Jurisdictions"" document (that Steve sent me materials to include in) and will provide it to the Alberta Government and Power Pool and then follow up with them. 
The attached memo provides an update on the status of the Power Pool's further consideration of the proposed rule changes.  In summary, it appears the Pool will not proceed with the proposal to exclude import offers from setting pool price but will recommend a rule that reduces ability of suppliers to become price takers on volumes that were originally priced too high to clear the merit order.  I will receive more specifics on the dispatch risk rule change on Monday. Regards, Rob 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
How difficult issues are resolved in Illinois.......... 
I think you're missing a ""solve"" in last sentence. 
Thanks- you got it about right .....except that Kean's Democratic credentials are seriously in question these days as are his "" liberal- minded"" credentials. You may have won over an individual  who can now clearly  be categorized as a lost soul. ""Foster, Gary"" <GFoster@Antigenics.com> on 11/30/2000 08:07:18 AM 
Hello everyone: Last evening there were several receptions in Sacramento which allowed us to chat with some interesting folks about the energy situation. Bob Foster said Edison is very close to declaring bankruptcy.  He said maybe it would be the best thing if the Federal court were involved anyway because he was not having much influence on policy discussions and legislative decisions. An hour and a half discussion with Steve Peace can be summarized as follows: 1.  He believes Enron has done a masterful job of manipulating the market. 2.  He believes it may not be too late for Enron, specifically Ken Lay, to use the Federal government to stabilize the market.  Lay's influence with Bush could set up a system with true competition (perhaps publicly-owned generation could be a competitor) and fair and just prices. 3.  Peace himself will not be a major player in energy solutions. He'll be in Puerta Vallarta with his wife for half of January to prove the point. 4.  He suggests having Jim Brulte, Senate Minority Leader and Bush campaigner, get involved to promote a proactive solution which includes Ken Lay and President Bush.  (I'm calling Brulte today to get a reaction) 5.  He believes there is a good chance that the Sempra, Edison and PG&E go into bankruptcy.  Ultimately that would be very bad for Enron for a variety of reasons which I could not follow and/or retain. The Director of the Department of Consumer Affairs said her office received a call yesterday afternoon from the Governor's office directing them, and all other state agencies, to turn off all computers by 4:00 p.m.  The Governor wanted to light the capitol Xmas tree and was concerned there would be too much drain on the power system.  He didn't want to be accused of adding to the electricity shortage, so the trade off was no state compputers would be used while the tree was lit.  The tree was turned off after half an hour.  Sandi has this morning's Sacramento Bee article which described the incident in somewhat different detail. 
On November 8, the Office of the Chairman, issued an important communicatio= n,=20 announcing significant organizational changes in Enron's worldwide=20 operations. The purpose of this memo is to share with you the decisions tha= t=20 are underway to restructure  Enron=01,s operations in South America.  The b= asic=20 organizational framework has been set.=20 As you know, Diomedes Christodoulou and Jim Bannantine will be assuming new= =20 responsibilities within Enron. Replacing them will be Orlando Gonzalez and= =20 Joe Kishkill, who will become the Co-Presidents of South America, reporting= =20 to Dave Delainey and John Lavorato.  They will share overall responsibility= ;=20 however, Orlando=01,s focus will be on direct sales origination,=20 commercial/government relationships and regulatory issues.  Joe=01,s focus = will=20 be on wholesale origination, financial and operating performance and overal= l=20 country management.  In addition, Orlando will continue as President and CE= O=20 of Elektro until its ultimate sale. The existing, large integrated asset base in South America (excluding=20 Elektro) will be managed and operated by Rebecca McDonald and Jim Hughes in= =20 Enron Global Assets, which is part of Enron Wholesale Services under Mark= =20 Frevert. Ultimately, there will be very close coordination in both Brazil a= nd=20 Argentina between Enron Americas and Enron Global Assets to ensure that our= =20 reputation in South America is protected, our asset positions are being=20 managed prudently and that commercial opportunities surrounding these asset= s=20 are pursued. The remaining natural gas and electrical commercial activities in South=20 America will be organized around the highly successful North American netwo= rk=20 business model.  This model employs people, market making, physical=20 commodities, capital and assets to provide reliable, flexible and high-valu= e=20 products to our customers.  It is people and intellectual capital based and= =20 enjoys high rates of return on invested capital. In the interest of pursuing this strategy, the following teams will report = to=20 Joe and Orlando: =20 The Commercial Origination team will be lead by Brett Wiggs.  The team will= =20 focus on covering South American markets, primarily Brazilian and Argentine= =20 natural gas and electricity, with the following goals: ? Generating new, innovative, reliable and high value products and services= =20 needed by the market by utilizing our commodity, asset and capital=20 capabilities; ? Providing those products and services across South America and across the= =20 value chain, including wholesale and retail, based upon the highest value= =20 opportunity; ? Finding structural value arbitrages in the South American market and move= =20 quickly to capitalize; ? Assisting the Risk Management and Trading organization in managing the=20 overall risk of the organization; ? Managing all new power and asset development opportunities in South Ameri= ca=20 consistent with this strategy, and ? Providing the Risk Management and Trading organization information and de= al=20 flow. The Commercial Origination team will consist of a diverse group of people w= ho=20 work as a single team which bring the required skills including commodity,= =20 capital, regulatory, asset, development, market, structuring, deal executio= n,=20 finance and country knowledge necessary to reach our goals.=20 The Trading and Risk Management team will be headed by Remi Collonges.  The= =20 team will continue to develop pricing information and manage the price book= =20 for the relevant energy markets in support of the wholesale and direct sale= s=20 efforts.  Additionally, the team will work toward implementation of activel= y=20 trading South American energy commodities.  This group will be responsible= =20 for managing Enron South America=01,s overall risk and will have a direct= =20 reporting relationship with John Lavorato in his role as head of the Americ= as=20 risk activities. The Argentine effort will be integrated into the overall South American=20 Commercial Origination and Trading and Risk Management groups; however, we= =20 will continue to maintain an Argentine office headed by Michael Guerriero. = =20 The goal of the reorganization is to create a flat team oriented organizati= on=20 that is very market and commercially focused.  The following support=20 functions will assist the overall business objectives of the commercial tea= m=20 and will report into Joe and Orlando, plus into their line functions in=20 Houston.  The overall goal is to ensure that the South American business=20 units have an adequate support organization to evaluate opportunities, as= =20 well as manage day-to-day business and risk.  Otherwise, the Houston=20 infrastructure will provide resources as needed to manage peak requirements= =20 in South America, not unlike other businesses in Enron Americas. These groups include: The Government Affairs team, which will be headed by Sergio Assad, will=20 manage the relationships with the relevant regulatory agencies as well as= =20 governmental ministries.  The primary regulatory goal will be to facilitate= ,=20 in the near term, substantive changes to the regulatory rules to allow a=20 functioning wholesale traded market in Brazil and Argentina. Sergio will=20 assume his responsibilities upon completion of the Elektro sale.  During th= is=20 interim period, Jose Bestard will continue to be in charge of the regulator= y=20 function.  Once Sergio makes the transition, he will also report to Rick=20 Shapiro in Enron Government Affairs. The Finance team will be headed by Britaldo Soares.  The team will manage t= he=20 interface with Enron Global Finance.  Britaldo will transition from his=20 current duties at Elektro upon completion of the Elektro sale.  Britaldo wi= ll=20 also report to Joe Deffner in Enron Global Finance.  Rob Gay will be=20 assisting Britaldo during the transition, while continuing his work on the= =20 Cuiaba project. The Legal team, which will be lead by Randy Young, as general counsel, and= =20 John Novak, as deputy general counsel, will manage South America=01,s legal= =20 requirements.  Randy and John will also report to Mark Haedicke in Enron=20 Wholesale Services - Legal Department. Miguel Padron will become Chief of Staff.  Human Resources, Information=20 Technology, Treasury, Accounting & Reporting, as well as Administration wil= l=20 report to Miguel.  This will bring focus to essential, but non-commercial= =20 functions, as well as more efficiently manage key matrix reporting=20 relationships with Enron.  Miguel will also report to David Oxley in Enron= =20 Wholesale Services =01) Human Resources and Wes Colwell in Enron Wholesale= =20 Services =01) Business Analysis and Reporting. These changes are consistent with Enron's evolving business strategy and=20 reflect our continuing commitment to grow the company by maximizing our=20 financial and intellectual capital.  However, in line with the new=20 organizational structure and the near term potential for business in the=20 region, further budget reductions will be necessary.  People directly=20 affected will be notified shortly. =20 Enron is committed to continue the successful implementation of its=20 businesses in South America.  We believe that as the markets develop, we ar= e=20 uniquely positioned to leverage Enron=01,s core capabilities and create=20 shareholder value.=20 
I agree w/ Mary and made this point earlier. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 12:22 PM 
I'm not sure whether we want Hoecker to make the fourth point.  What do others think? 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
What time is call and what is #? 
Read last quote from Steve Fetter. 
CC list suppressed... December 13, 2000 Energy Price Volatility May Hurt Utilities' Credit By REBECCA SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL Recent volatility in wholesale energy markets is undermining the credit ratings and may eventually crimp the borrowing ability of some of the nation's biggest utilities, long regarded in the credit markets as some of the safest bets around. It is the worst out West, where the price of power to be delivered Wednesday hit a new high of $1,182 per megawatt hour on California's state-sanctioned auction, a benchmark for the entire region. That compares with $30 a year ago. But even utilities in the East, such as GPU Inc. of Parsippany, N.J., and Consolidated Edison of New York, also are at risk because they are paying higher prices than ever for spot-market electricity purchases and aren't always able to pass along that cost to their customers. As an indication of just how bad things are getting, Moody's Investors Service Tuesday put Seattle City Light on ""negative outlook,"" even though it is one of the lowest-cost generators in the nation. There hasn't been much rain in the Northwest this year and the city-owned utility has been forced to go to the wholesale market this month to buy 100 to 200 megawatts of electricity each day. That isn't much energy, but with prices that have gone as high as $1,000 per megawatt hour this week, compared with the $24 per megawatt hour that the municipal utility pays for power from the federal hydroelectric system, costs add up fast. The utility, which issued $100 million in bonds this week, is raising rates 10%, effective Jan. 1, and will keep the rate increase in effect as long as it takes to dig its way out. ""Prices are at absurd levels,"" says Seattle City Light Superintendent Gary Zarker. ""I know others are looking at 
The following is the list of suppliers referenced by Governor Davis in today 's Washington, DC press conference.  For those of you that are IEP members, it would be helpful if you forwarded to IEP any comments you have made or plan on making to the press. These suppliers have advised the ISO that they are unwilling to sell power into the California markets. Dynegy Power Marketing Trans Alta Eugene Water and Electric Southern Energy Trading PowerEx (BC Hydro) Public Service Colorado Enron Power Marketing Portland General Avista (Washington Water Power) Idaho Power Company PPL Montana Seattle City Light Puget Sound Energy Julee Malinowski-Ball Edson + Modisette jmball@ns.net 
One of the things I'd like to talk about next week is setting up a process to funnel requests for Ken's time through ( Jeff andf Joe also), so that we're forwarding to him consensus  high priority requests. Thanks. Joe Hillings@ENRON 02/07/2000 07:48 AM 
Ken: While in Europe last week I arranged a meeting with Douglas Worth, Secretary General of the Business Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the OECD. Doug headed the Washington office of IBM until he retired a few years ago, then joined Carla Hills firm and two years ago became Secretary General of the BIAC. During his Washington service for IBM he headed up the Trade Committee of the United States Council for International Business to which we have long been a member. Doug and I discussed the promotion of energy services and he had several suggestions which I found to be excellent. He is a top level person who recommends policy to the OECD. He suggested that he would like to organize a meeting with you briefing OECD ministers and senior staff on business plans of today, changes in the market place and what is necessary to advance a business in today's atmosphere. Doug believes that having such a high level briefing advances the cause of business and competitive policies which is the priority of the OECD. He also called my attention to the OECD Forum 2000 to be held June 26-28 in Paris. Doug has offered to contact Dennis Lamb, another former Washingtonian in the diplomatic service who is arranging the program and if you are available he would ask that you be a primetime speaker. It covers the type of issues that you addressed at the WTO in Seatlle and the World Economic Forum in Davos.  (I would dearly love to have a few minutes briefing from you on your Davos appearances). I think these presentations at the OECD, one a private luncheon with Ministers that Doug thinks would be an informal presentation and the possibility of a slot on the June 26-28 program would be excellent for our cause and hope that your schedule either in June or later can accommodate this opportunity. Joe PS: Doug and his eco-staff director Ms. Hanne Rosenbaum (she knows and has worked with John Palmisano) told me that one of their main themes this year is eco-efficiency which seems to fit our Enron goals. 
FYI- Terry is trying, at least with me. 
We used the BIT threat once before when they tried to re-trade TGS's rates in violation of the sales agreement. George Wasaff  can give you all of the details. This time we may have to go all of the way and litigate.  Tax issues in Argentina have also killed trading.  The problem is that the constitution empowers the states with all kinds of taxing authority so if you want changes in policies you have to have a constitutional amendment.  You can imagine the eagerness of politicians to take on that battle. I will be setting up some quality time with you the week of the 21st.  Again, congratulations. This is an exciting and complex part of the world and I can't think of anyone better to bring some focusand results here. 
Terry, here is the summary of the dispute.  Let me know if you would like any additional information, or if would would like me to put this into memo form. Argentine law imposes a stamp tax on written contracts.  In the past several years, the provincial governments of several of the provinces have, in an effort to raise desperately needed revenues, adopted a new and broader interpretation of the tax's application.  These provinces--Rio Negro, Neuquen, and Santa Cruz--have sought to apply this interpretation retroactively, resulting in the imposition of staggering assessments.  For TGS, the Enron company (40% owned) most affected, the assessments total $153 million in taxes, $172 million in interest, and $208 million in fines.  (See attached chart for breakdown). To date, court challenges to the taxes have been unsuccessful.  TGS has pending before the Argentine federal Supreme Court an application to declare the taxes unconstitutional and unlawful, but the Court has, as yet, not acted.  Meanwhile, the provinces are free to attempt to collect the taxes, by levy if necessary. The federal government has, in documents filed in another case, expressed the view that the imposition of stamp taxes in the manner folowed by the provinces is illegal.  Energas has also expressed its view that the taxes are illegal.  The federal Supreme Court, however, has recently denied an application (filed by another company) to enjoin collection of the taxes. On November 23, 1999, Enron notified the federal government that it regarded the imposition of these taxes as in violation of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between Argentina and the U.S.  Since that notification, representatives of Enron and the government have held several meetings. Substantive discussions, however, have not yet begun.  The Treaty mandates a six-month cooling off period before arbitration can be initiated.  If the negotiations with the government are unsuccessful, Enron intends to file an arbitration with the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in Washington, D.C.  By way of information, Endesa currently has an arbitration underway at ICSID challenging the taxes, presumably under a BIT between Spain or Chile and Argentina. 
In advance of my visit next week, could you please prepare a list of priority activities currently underway in your goup( domestic and international ) with some sense of the level of  resources being committed to each of those activities( internal and external resources ) ?  What might also be helpful with respect to each of those activities are short, mid, and long-term objectives,e.g,.value creation, that you have identified. Thanks very much. I 
Do you have a list of ongoing projects the Southern Cone Gov't Affairs group is engaged in?  Please forward to me if you do.( If something does'nt already exist, perhaps you could pull something together at your earliest convenience ) Also, any information as to relative priority of these projects and level of resources ( both internal and external ) you have committed by project would be helpful. I look forward to getting down to Sao Paulo soon to visit with you and your group. Hope your move goes  uneventfully. Thanks for all 
June 
What is this?? 
June American Foreign Service Association President Marshall Adair called to advise that of the 10 foreign service officers now in economic training at the Foreign Service Institute, 7 of the 10 had indicated an interest in join ing Enron's Federal Affairs office for the newly instituted Business Practicum. Marshall asked that I call Tom Martin, deputy director of the Office of the Business Coordinator which I did. I agreed that we would take two of the foreign service officers.   Tom Pierce's last post was in Amman, Jordan where he headed the commercial section at the embassy as senior economic officer. Following the Business Practicum, he will be joining the Office of the Business Coordinator which is an excellent fit for us. He had prior assignments in Melbourne and Ecuador where he did counsellor work. He worked at Case-Harvester in sales and marketing and has an MBA. Rob Winchester will be going to one of the ""stans"" after the Business Practicum. His earlier foreign service assignments include regional economic office in Washington with the East Asia Bureau, DOS Operations Center, Malayasia and Romania counsellor assignments. I've agreed to accepting both and will be assigning one to each of you. Carolyn will need to get them an office in the expansion space at Rome. Joe P.S. I think we should organize some briefing materials and take them to lunch so they can be oriented before arrival. 
FYI 
I already sent this to Mary.  Some interesting quotes from Dick O'Neill.  Let mw know if any of you want to see Seabron's paper 
Trying this again.? Attached are Seabron's  Notes to the recent FERC meeting.? Please treat these as confidential and  not for public distribution. - 00-02-13 SA Memo on FERC meeting on market power.doc 
FYI 
WRONG - We would find monopolies in supply and generation intolerable. thanks   mcs Joe Hillings@ENRON 24/03/2000 20:43 
To all -- Below is a proposed response to Carol Balassa's question, which gets at the impact of the energy services effort on government monopolies for the ownership and provision of energy.  As I have received various comments from a variety of people, I have tried to reflect what I see as a general consensus.  The response is drafted as coming from USTR, not from the ESC. We should be prepared to discuss this on Monday [Tim, I know you will be away, so if you have any comments, I'd welcome them before you head out.] Regards to all -- Bob 7.  What impact would such a description of ""energy services"" have in a country where the government retains a monopoly over the ownership and provision of energy? ""The United States welcomes and supports the efforts of countries that are privatizing and deregulating their energy and energy services sectors.  It believes such actions are in all parties' economic interests. However, as part of WTO negotiations on energy services, we seek neither to require governments to privatize ownership of energy resources or the provision of energy or to break up existing monopolies. Our goals are market access commitments and a regulatory framework that ensure that energy services firms are able to compete with all suppliers in the provision of energy services on a fair, non-discriminatory basis, under a timely, transparent and independent regulatory framework, including access to transmission and distribution networks.  We want to ensure that where monopolies exist, that they do not abuse that 
telecommunication markets 
FYI 
telecommunication markets Rick, Here are some articles which examine the ineffectiveness of WTO agreement (1997) on the opening up of the telecommunication markets around the world. One of the major forthcoming issues is Japan's risk of tbeing aken to the WTO over its high access costs in the Japanese domestic market. Both the US and EU have been urging the Japanese to bring down the cost or face the consequences.  We are still waiting to see what will happen in Brussels? Whether the WTO have enough power to enforce its regulations would be a major factor in determining the its prowess in the future. best regards, xi xi 
FYI 
We need to discuss. 
Rick, As per your request -- please see the attached proposed electricity budget. Thanks, Carolyn 
Hardcopies also to follow. 
Please find attached Section I from the 4/6 draft of the IM. - #251862 v1 - SECTION 1.doc 
Good news. Sarah Novosel@ECT 05/01/2000 10:39 AM 
Rick and Joe: Please see the email below from our DOJ counsel at V&E.  Hopefully the DOJ matter will be settled by mid-week.  I'll keep you both posted. Sarah ""Imus, Neil W."" <nimus@velaw.com> on 05/01/2000 09:54:44 AM 
Ann, Sarah, Jay and Adam: I spoke with Brian Mohr at Skadden this morning.  He said that when he spoke to Jade at the end of last week about her investigation, she said that her recommendation had gone up the line to the front office, that she did not need any additional information and that unless her superiors wanted additional information, that she did not expect to need anything more from us. I think this means that Jade will likely just let the 30 day waiting period expire unless someone up the line from her raises questions or issues (which it doesn't seem as if she expects).  Furthering this interpretation is that fact that, according to Brian, Jade is out of the office this week, so it would be difficult for her to begin drafting a second request. Brian said he is supposed to talk to Jade on a conference call later today about another matter, and he will see if she will provide any more definitive information.  However, assuming she just lets the HSR waiting period expire, we will be cleared to close (from an antitrust perspective) at midnight on May 3rd. Neil Neil W. Imus Vinson & Elkins  L.L.P. 1455 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. #700 Washington, D.C. 20004-1008 Phone: 202-639-6675 Fax: 202-639-6604 e-mail: nimus@velaw.com 
Dan , if he brings this one home, will be a hero. 
On balance , this is a good thing- not great, but Barbara and Roy did a great job to get the improvements they got- also, the seccuritization is good for project motown assets. 
Late yesterday evening the Michigan House of Representatives approved the package of electric restructuring bills, namely SB937 (vote of 72 -35) and SB1253 (vote of 73 - 35).  The bills now go back to the Senate where the changes made by the House are expected to be agreed to.  If this occurs, which we expect it will, the bill will be signed by the Governor this weekend and take immediate effect. Attached is an initial summary of SB937 as passed by the House.  The House accepted approximately 7 amendments on the floor.  This summary may be updated should these amendments have any real impact on the bill for Enron. Our initial assessment is that they do not - Eric Schneidewind and I are meeting first thing Thursday morning to review them carefully.  We will keep you updated. Finally, regarding the issue of being subject to acquiring local franchises as a condition of doing business in municipalities in Michigan:  You will recall that we had language inserted into the bill in the Senate which declared that Alternative Electric Suppliers would not be considered public utilities.  This language would have deleted the requirement that we obtain local franchises.  However, the Governor had made a deal with the MI Municipal League that this issue would not be resolved in this legislation. (This deal I believe was struck in the context of various other issues pending among the legislature, governor and municipal league).  Late yesterday, Senate Leader DeGrow came out in support of an amendment to exclude schools (elementary, secondary, community colleges, universities, etc...) from the local franchise for purposes of aggregation -- thus upsetting the status quo which had been agreed to by the Governor and Municipal League.  Senator DeGrow was firm in his support and said that in order for the Senate to agree to House changes, this language had to be added.  Well, the language was not added in the House --- due to overall confusion.  So, we are going to talk with Senator DeGrow this morning to urge him to go forward with the Senate agreeing to the House changes in the bill and to consider the schools amendment in the context of exempting all Alternative Electric Suppliers from local franchise requirements.  A bill or amendment to this effect can be handled during the September session. Customer groups are also going to do the same thing.  The Govenror supports our position on this issue and we believe we have the momentum to get this done when the legislature comes back in September. Roy and I are available today if you have any questions.  You can reach Roy at 630-654-6472. I can be reached this morning at 614-306-4359 and this afternoon at 614-760-7472. 
Good news from the Southern Cone. 
Further to my e-mail yesterday, advising of the approval of the GasBol - Transborder Firm Transportation Contract for service to Cuiaba, I have received letters today from the Superintendent APPROVING the following firm transportation service contracts: GTB-Transborder Transredes-Transborder Transredes-Chaco Transredes-Maxus The approval of the Transborder contracts will be effective 10 days after we file an official translation of these contracts. The approval of the remaining contracts will be effective 10 days after we file a signed original of such contracts. Congratulations to all involved!  Ray 
Please find attached a memo and powerpoint  presentation that memorializes the above-refrenced meeting. I would ask that Kevin and Tim forward this on to everyone in their group who should see it- we did'nt have a good list of names. Thanks and feel ree to call if you have any questions. 
Rich, I am on a leave from LeBoeuf and working on the Transition Team as part of the Energy Policy Group for the next few weeks.  We request Enron's views on electricity issues.  I regret the short notice and tight deadline for your response (Monday COB), but time is short and there is a need to flesh out Administration positions and prepare nominees.  Please consider responding to the questions as an attachment to your response, which should use the requested template.  Until we move in the D.C. Transition office on Monday or so, the best way to reach me is cell phone (202-255-6803) or email. Regards. 
Congrats! Great job for you and everyone else in D.C.( & Houston)  office that assisted. Thanks. Chris Long 12/16/2000 10:16 AM 
Congress Passes the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 Late Friday afternoon, December 15, Congress passed the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.  The purpose of the Act is to eliminate unnecessary regulation of commodity futures exchanges and other entities falling within the  coverage of the Commodities Exchange Act (""CEA"") and the provide legal certainty with regard to certain futures and derivatives transactions.  By enacting such changes, Congress intends to promote product innovation and to enhance the competitive position of US financial markets. Certain provisions of the Act open the door for Enron's further product innovation and growth.  Specifically, the Act provides important legal certainty for energy and other transactions occuring both on an over-the-counter (OTC) bilateral basis and on multilateral electronic trading platforms.  Enron was a leading advocate of passage of this legislation. Bilateral Transactions Under the Act, bilateral transactions in all commodities (other than agriculture commodities) that do not occur on trading facility (i.e. not on a multi-party exchange) are exempt from most provisions of the CEA as long as the transactions are entered solely between ""eligible contract participants""(i.e. persons and certain legal entities satisfying capital thresholds and other requirements under the Act).  This provision essentially codifies and expands existing CFTC exemptions for swaps and forward contracts, thereby eliminating a degree of legal ambiguity that has frustrated product innovation and growth. Multilateral Transactions In addition, the Act creates a broad exemption for any agreement, contract or transaction in commodities (other than agriculture commodities) so long as they the transactions are between ""eligible commercial participants"", are entered into on a ""principle-to-principle basis"" and that take place on a multi-party ""electronic facility"".  This exemption could facilitate expansion of EnronOnline to allow for multi-party transactions, however certain legal requirements will have to be met. Other Transactions The Act also creates a broad exclusion for a number of commodities that are of interest to Enron, including ""credit risk measure"" commodities and weather derivatives .  Again, the derivative transaction exclusion will have to meet certain legal thresholds. This legislation has been over six years in the making and the collective support of many Enron employees has been crucial.  Thank you to all that have contributed to the passage on this important legislation.  We will have a more through legal summary of this legislation in the near future. Do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 466- 9158 of Mark Taylor at (713) 853-7459 with any questions. 
Electric Utility Industry 
Final version. 
Electric Utility Industry FYI 
Electric Utility Industry Joe, Linda Robertson and Joe Hartsoe of Enron asked me to forward to you the attached comments and answers of Enron on the subject document.  It is in WordPerfect 8.  If you need to have it converted to another format, please let me know: 202-828-5851.  Hope all is well and congratulations on landing a position with LeBoeuf. Dan - 0135652.01 
See my self-evaluation on PEP system. Thanks Maureen McVicker 12/22/2000 03:47 PM 
Steve Kean would like each of you to send him a list of your accomplishments for 2000. If you have already provided the list to Steve, please disregard this email. DUE DATE:  Close of business, Thurs., Jan. 4 
Attached is list for Bush's transition advisory  teams- notably, we're absent from all but Commerce(Sandherr) and Energy(Lay). 
I think the first paragraph is gratuitous and constitutes bad faith. Paul Kaufman@ECT 07/10/2000 05:07 PM 
We're communicating our objections to the first paragraph in writing to Sierra.   I'll try again to get hold of Oldham and Ponn. Page me if you need me.  I'm in the office all afternoon. 
Rich Shapiro requested this chart for Ken Lay. Thanks for Kristian for doing the heavy lifting. I have spruced up the chart a bit and turned into a Power Point chart.  Open the .xls file only if you want to modify the source data. Alan Comnes 
? ? ? - Final pt1.doc - Final pt2.doc 
Rick - In case you didn't receive this, here is the e-mail that Cynthia sent yesterday about next week's Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing.  It will be held on Wednesday, January 31 at 9:30 a.m. in 216 Hart Senate Office Building and will most likely continue for a second day, to be determined.  Let us know if you need anything else.  Thanks. Cynthia Sandherr 01/25/2001 05:30 PM 
Steve:  I ran into Senate Energy Committee Chief of Staff Andrew Lundquist who advised me that Chairman Murkowski (R-AK) sent a letter directly to Ken Lay asking him or his designee (you?)( Jeff Skilling?)  to testify at the January 31st Senate Energy Committee hearing on the California situation.  As reported earlier, Secretary Abraham and FERC Chairman Hebert will be testifying at the beginning of the hearing.  Enron would be asked to join a panel of eight which includes invited witnesses of:  SoCalEd, PG&E, SMUD, LAWDP, Calpine, Williams and Reliant.  Should Enron accept, EPSA would have four witnesses on this panel of eight. When I spoke to Andrew, he said the Committee was more interested in hearing Enron's testimony on markets, long term contracts, risk management, etc. than the generation and new power plant construction viewpoints likely to be offered by the other EPSA witnesses.  He believes this will complement what the Administration witnesses will say.  Believe it or not, recently, Chairman Murkowski has made some progress in moving towards supporting Enron's open access electricity  transmission position, although his draft legislation is silent on this issue.  Our testimony on the importance of open access for reliability purposes (""reliability"" would be the tie-in to discuss this issue in relation to the draft legislation) plus on the need for consistency with the other existing open access provisions in the Murkowski draft bill  could provide an excellent platform for Enron to inform many Congressional members about California, markets and deregulation needs (the Murkowski draft bill was sent to you earlier and is to be introduced February 5th or 6th.) Steve, earlier you had asked for the opportunity to do a Hill staff briefing on California to reach a larger audience with our messages.  I believe this would provide an excellent opportunity to achieve this goal.  If you would like, either at a breakfast prior to or in the afternoon after, we could also do a Press Club briefing and/or arrange to have a room on the Hill (perhaps on the House side) to invite staffers for additional briefings (and include the other EPSA witnesses.) In the alternative, if this hearing date does not work in your schedule,  the other EPSA witnesses could make some of our points for us.  However, these points might be somewhat diluted given these witnesses' other priorities.  As always, you (Jeff and Ken) make a fabulous witness. Please advise.  (This hearing will be covered extensively by the Press.) 
EPSA's california story. 
- Updated California The Real Story 1-01.doc 
Rick, thought you might enjoy this alternative theory on the root cause of Cal's problem.  Ray 
Feb. 2, 2001, 8:06PM The rest of us should tell California to go fly a kite By DAVE BARRY When we consider the serious electricity shortage in California, our reaction, as concerned Americans, is: Ha ha! No, seriously, we are alarmed. Because history teaches us that whatever happens to California -- smog, road rage, tofu, coffee that is mainly air, cell  phones, the belief that abdominal muscles are attractive, Shirley MacLaine,  people taking in-line skating seriously, grandmothers sporting new and  flagrantly inappropriate bosoms -- eventually happens to the rest of the nation.  Thus it is vital that we analyze the California electricity shortage and see if  we can develop a workable solution before we become bored and change the  subject. Our first question is: What, exactly, is electricity? When we look in our Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, we see that ""electricity"" is defined  as a ""class of physical phenomena resulting from the existence of charge  and from the interaction of charges."" What does this mean, in lay-person's  terms? It means that whoever wrote the Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia is a big, fat dope. Because we know from our junior-high-school science training that electricity is actually a fast-moving herd of electrons, which are tiny one-celled animals that can survive in almost any environment except inside a  double-A battery, where they die within minutes. Electrons are formed when clouds rub together and become excited. This was proved in the famous experiment wherein Benjamin Franklin flew a kite during a  thunderstorm and was almost killed. Encouraged by this success, Franklin went on  to conduct many more electrical experiments, including rolling a hoop in a  thunderstorm, playing hopscotch in a thunderstorm and doing somersaults in a  thunderstorm. Finally one night he was caught wearing only a bonnet and playing Mister Pooter Rides the Pony in a thunderstorm, leaving the authorities with no choice  but to arrest him and make him ambassador to France.  Nevertheless, Franklin had proved an important scientific point, which is  that electricity originates inside clouds. There it forms into lightning, which  is attracted to the earth by golfers. After entering the ground, the electricity hardens into coal, which, when 
Admittedly , ERCOT was handled poorly from a pleading submission perspective, but there is a legitimate discussion going on within the company that , at the very least,  will result in a more flexible approach to market structure and , perhaps( this is my preference) will result in a sharpening and refocusing of our positions that will acknowledge the necessity for an ""LMP""-like approach in real-time to achieve sufficient depth of liquidity.( with a keen focus on developing forward markets in transmission rights). Airing our differences and doubts externally creates absolutely no benefit - At the end of the day, we're here ( no matter where we end up on this issue) to enhance the company's commercial success, not to win an ideological battle. I understand and value the passion people in our group bring to their work... I don't want to lose that ""fire"", but merely want to assure that it is properly directed. We will resolve this issue shortly and am quite  sure we will all work hard to ensure uniformity of message at that time. Susan J Mara 02/21/2001 06:15 PM 
Ziad   and Elena and Diane and Alex, It is not exactly true -- but I can see how people got that idea.  Enron has decided to withdraw the filings we made in ERCOT. Our position on the ERCOT market structure is being reviewed. Enron continually goes through a process of reviewing its policies to make sure they are consistent with our business needs.  I can tell you that there are some strong supporters of Hogan's policies INSIDE Enron now and these supporters are finding an ear. Currently, we are reviewing the positions we are taking on market structure in ERCOT and the east.  We have to ensure we are practical -- from a business point of view -- and not being just religious about our views.  Probably the number one concern of the business people is the ability to have a deep, liquid market for trading.  I believe that much of the discussion has focused on the ways in which we can achieve such a market. After our review of ERCOT, Enron may indeed support a PJM-like structure for the real-time market, but the filings we make will likely not imply that this approach be implemented everywhere.  I expect that we will be free to support different approaches in different parts of the country, depending on the evolution of the markets in each location. What does this mean for our position in California?  So far, nothing.  We are standing firm on our California position, supporting the ISO and stakeholder-approved approach for congestion management, and do not have any plans to make new proposals. Further, we have the support of the Traders on this. Please feel free to call with any concerns. Believe me, I'm having just as hard of a time working through this as you all are. Sue Sue Mara Enron Corp. Tel: (415) 782-7802 Fax:(415) 782-7854 ""Alaywan, Ziad"" <ZAlaywan@caiso.com> 02/21/2001 01:12 PM 
Can we review over weekend- I'll ask Maureen to schedule an hour for the 3 of us on Monday. 
Please see attached. We have tried to develop five basic market objectives, show why these critical given Enron's strategic position, and describe some of the market attributes that follow from the positions. I think these attributes will lead directly to (at least our) proposed ""ideal"" RTO structure. We can cut down some of the background discussion if you wish to circulate it to any other audiences within the company. But I wanted you guys to have a sense of where we are coming from with respect to some of the conclusions. Unless instructed otherwise I will continue to circulate documents only to the two of you, and you can forward to others as you see fit. Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com - 01-03-01 SA Draft paper on market objectives and attributes.doc 
Congrats!! Ray Alvarez 03/22/2001 04:29 PM 
Rick, I heard from my Bolivia regulatory team that the supreme decree is a reality and that it is very positive- including full recovery of the $100MM gas deferred account that we were hanging out on.  I will provide more details as soon as I receive them.  Ray 
Here's ad campaign that I found through Olivia( Davis's person in D.C.) ....if this is it , not so bad. 
These were the only articles w/ polling info on rate increases that Ann could find.  I don't think the Chronicle has done an independent poll. 
I think these are quite good...the missing piece, I would argue, that we need to include is a talking point on the need for FERC to focus significant resources on the identification and elimination of market power in electricity markets and the need to encourage the development of distributed generation and more effective demand - side response mechanisms , partly in response to market power concerns. This is a huge issue in  getting wholesale electricity markets to work effectively, i.e; to create discernable  consumer welfare benefits.... and we ( Enron ) need to talk about this this issue and concern and talk about it frequently and w/ the same passion we talk about the need for open markets. Linda Robertson 04/04/2001 12:09 PM 
Steve, per our conversation yesterday in Houston, what do you think of these TPs?  To be used by both Ken and Jeff in conversations and meetings with the Bush Administration. - Skilling Talking Points.doc 
Lauren, Mr. Shapiro has updated his presentation.  Can you make sure that this version is available to him for Monday's meeting?  Also, will his presentation be saved on a computer for his use or does he need to have it on a ""CD/diskette""? Thanks gngr 713-853-7751 
I still think an additional organizational announcement is necessary- I can= =20 explain further when you so desire. Thanks. 
FYI 
Rick, Thanks for the message. Sorry for not getting back to you before. Easter is a holiday in Venezuela and we got two days off. I am certainly involved in the domestic portion of the project, lobbying and educating Venezuelan authorities on its benefits in particular, and the benefits of an open and transparent market in general. I am working closely with Emilio Vicens and Guido Caranti who are leading the development of the project. The three of us have written extensive comments to regulations, have met on several opportunities with the regulator and with the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), making significant progress on this front, such as allowing to create a working group to study the project in detail. The actual creation is still pending, but we will bring this issue during a meeting scheduled this week. Politics surrounding this project are complicated. PDVSA has traditionally imposed its views on MEM, who rubberstamped all its decisions. With the Chavez Administration, things have changed dramatically, almost paralizing every PDVSA initiative. Since PDVSA is the one that really needs to obtain the permit to supply the gas, PDVSA was ""in charge"" of dealing with MEM. Given this environment, and once the commercial terms with PDVSA were in place, Enron decided (of course, with PDVSA's approval) to be proactive, starting a demonstration tour of the project to capture MEM's and the regulator's interests. Moreover, the initiative to involve the USG started with a conversation that Joe Hillings and I had during the GA meeting at the Woodlands. He requested a one pager summarizing the project to be presented to the USG for its inclusion in Bush's agenda, during the meeting that Chavez and Bush would have during the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas Summit in Canada this month. Lisa Yoho got involved later, and then Tom Briggs and his DC team. I participated in the drafting of a previous document to the one you attached. The US embassy has been informed, but perhaps kept on the side because we are affraid that its involvement might backfire. The relationsahip between the USG and Venezuela have been antagonistic due to OPEC's policies, and the political leftist leaning of the Chavez Administration. We are selling this project as a Venezuelan project, that will advance Venezuelan interests (more than US interests), and so far has worked. I don't mean that the effort to include this project in Bush's agenda will have the same fate, because the US Embassy deals at lower levels and the message doesn't get to Chavez, who is the real sponsor of the project. Lower levels, except people at PDVSA-Gas, are in a neutral to slight opposition stance (recent changes in MEM and PDVSA might have aligned these interests). I hope this background info helped understand the dynamics associated with the Jose LNG project. Please feel free to let me know if you need additional information. My best regards, ALF Richard Shapiro 04/12/2001 11:01 AM 
How involved are you on this? 
Please find attached a brief outline of the Jose LNG project. Eric will call later this afternoon to discuss. Thanks, Jonathan 
Here are some initial reactions and questions to the CAISO market stabilization plan, which is attached. Give me or Sue Mara your comments and then we can turn it into message points for  media / advocacy folks. In addition to reviewing the plan, I listened in to part of a stakeholder call that occured Friday 10 a.m. PST. DRAFT MESSAGE POINTS: With limited exceptions, the plan does nothing to increase supply or decrease 
FYI- Seabron, as most of you know, is a consultant for us... his thoughts on FERC price cap order. 
I agree- it's not clear to me whether Cal. squares off with the feds on the RTO issue. All in all , a bad order that will only worsen the situation, not improve things( I'm saying that w/o benefit of order which is'nt out yet. Any thoughts? ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 04/26/2001 02:14:35 PM 
Rick: Sorry I missed your call. I had just popped out for a coffee. I'll just wait until next week before proceeding, after I get some comments from you guys. I should pretty much be around all next week so you can catch me whenever. I suppose you have been following the FERC California decision pretty closely. How CA gets integrated into a new RTO appears to be the key question. I would be surprised if RTO West even wants them in, given the credit risk issues, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
FYI 
MEMORANDUM TO: Regulatory Affairs Committee Power Marketers Working Group FROM: Joe Hartsoe, Regulatory Affairs Committee Chair Bob Reilley, Power Marketers Working Group Chair Julie Simon, Vice President of Policy Mark Bennett, Senior Manager of Policy Erin Perrigo, Manager of Policy DATE: April 27, 2001 RE: California Order Proxy Price Calculation We have had an initial opportunity to review FERC's Order Establishing Prospective Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the California Wholesale Electric Markets and Establishing an Investigation of Public Utility Rates in Wholesale Western Energy Markets, and will provide a more detailed summary early next week. However, questions have arisen as to the calculation of the proxy price when a stage 1, 2 or 3 emergency is called.  In initial discussions with FERC staff, we have determined that the price mitigation will work as follows: For the following day, the ISO will publish at 8 a.m. an average of the daily prices published in Gas Daily for all California delivery points, as well as emissions costs.  The emissions costs will be calculated by the ISO using the Cantor Fitzgerald Environmental Brokerage Service.  The marginal unit will then be determined via the single price auction in the hour, and the ISO will then take the previously submitted and confidential heat rate data and multiply it by the posted average gas price and emissions costs for that hour to determine the market clearing price.  The ISO will not be calculating an estimated market-clearing price in advance. 
What do you think? 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
When do we want to get together to call Seabron w/  feedback? 
Jim/Rick/Steve: Please see the attached draft. I think I have everything in there we discussed. Sorry I this has been slower than planned -as I mentioned before I have been facing a family medical problem. I will be out of the office for much of the next two days. I can be reached at (617) 513-5904 (cellphone) or via email. I should be back in the office full-time from Thursday a.m. Cheers Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-04-23 SA Draft policy paper for review.doc 
Great job! Chris Long@ENRON 07/27/2000 04:34 PM 
Today we were successful in killing an amendment that was offered by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House Banking Committee during its markup of the Commodities Future Modernization Act of 2000.  This amendment would have stricken language that provided an exclusion from CFTC jurisdiction for all non-agriculture transactions (energy, metals, broadband).  The amendment failed, largely due to pressure from Enron, by a vote of 20-12.  Rep. Ken Bensten (D-TX) joined Chairman Leach in speaking against the amendment. In more positive movement, yesterday the House Commerce Committee passed its version on the bill including a provision that exempts metal trading multilateral trading facilities from CFTC jurisdiction. Congress goes into recess tomorrow and we will have a better sense on how the Rules Committee plans to reconcile differences between the versions of the bill later this week.  The Senate is still the unknown. Call me at any question - Chris 
Bradley: We have learned that two amendments will be offered tomorrow my Rep. Maloney: #1  - Strikes lines 15-25 from page 41 and the entire page 42 (these are the sections of HR 4541 as reported out of the Ag. Committee which address the exemption for all most non-agriculture commodities trade on an electronic facility. #2  - Request a comprehensive study on the President's working group, DOE, and FERC. We strongly oppose amendment #1 which intends to more heavily regulate the energy derivatives industry.  Please have Rep. Bentsen voice his opposition to this amendment.  My guess is that amendment #2 should and will be ruled non-germane, however this is not a compromise we would support. Thanks - Chris (202) 466-9158 ""Edgell, Bradley"" <Bradley.Edgell@mail.house.gov> on 07/26/2000 05:31:08 PM 
Chris, I will look this over and get back to you. > ---------- 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 05/09/2001=20 04:00:13 PM 
FYI Orlando Gonzalez 05/09/2001 08:22 PM 
I skipped your name on this one.  We are fully engaged on both these issues= . =20 
Attached is the summary of Dennis Bakke's comments on AES investment plan f= or Brazil.  Apparently these were  on CNN.  These are the same positions we an= d=20 the Investors Group have been discussing with government officials.=20 =20 The second article is on the rationing situation which will result in cuts= =20 of over 20% over the next 6 months. We are preparing a summary of the impacts on our business for discussion=20 with =20 you this week. AES Suspends Brazil Investments US-based power company AES Corp. has put on hold plans to invest between US$2 billion and US$2.5 billion on energy projects in Brazil, alleging that= =20 the government=01,s policy on pricing is jeopardizing its operations. AES President Dennis Bakke, on a brief visit to Brazil, said the company suspended indefinitely its plans to build as many as 10 thermoelectric powe= r plants. Bakke criticized Brazil's electricity sector regulator Aneel for maintainin= g=20 an energy policy that charged what Bakke said were ``unrealistically low price= s=20 for consumers,'' forcing AES to carry the burden of rising costs. He said investments would remain on hold until the government came up with a solution. AES has already invested US$6 billion in Brazil, primarily in electricity projects, making it one of the country's top private foreign investors. Energy Blackouts To Begin June 1 The government announced Tuesday that it will begin a policy of programmed blackouts starting June 1 as part of its energy rationing plan. Mines and Energy Ministry officials had at first hoped to delay any blackou= ts until August, concentrating first on a program to induce consumers to reduc= e energy use. The critical level of reservoirs in the country=01,s main=20 hydroelectric plants, however, forced Tuesday=01,s decision to accelerate the blackouts w= hich=20 will last until the end of November when the rainy season begins. The blackouts will occur in the Southeast, Central-West and Northeast regio= ns of the country. At the same time the government will introduce a program=20 providing incentives to consumers to reduce their energy use. The goal of the plan is= =20 to lower electricity consumption by 20%. Although the general outline of the rationing plan was announced Tuesday, t= he details have yet to be worked out due to differences between the government ministers who compose the National Energy Policy Council (CNPE). A new meeting of CNPE was set for May 23 by which time it is hoped that an agreem= ent will have been reached on how to implement the plan. The initial proposal from Mines and Energy was for a 15% reduction for industry, 20% for residences and between 18% and 20% for commerce. The ministries of finance, planning and development, however, asked for more ti= me=20 to consider the impact of the energy cuts. The principal concern among government officials is with the impact on the economy of the proposed blackouts. According to a study to be released toda= y=20 by the Get?lio Vargas Foundation, a 20% energy cut would slow economic growth = by 1.5% of gross domestic product and would have a direct impact on 850,000 jo= bs. Production costs for industry would rise 1.5%, government tax receipts woul= d decline by R$6.6 billion (US$2.9 billion) and Brazil=01,s trade deficit wou= ld=20 increase by US$1.6 billion, according to the study. The study=01,s authors also said= =20 there was no guarantee that the effects of the program would be limited to this year. Business leaders reacted with apprehension to the prospect of obligatory blackouts. Most defended a policy of separate reduction goals for each=20 industrial sector, sparing industries that depend heavily on electricity. The S?o Paul= o=20 State Federation of Industries (Fiesp) said that sectors who are major consumers = of energy such as steel should be exempted from any rationing. While details were lacking in the government=01,s plan, officials said that= the administration of the energy cuts would be placed in the hands of local=20 utilities which would determine the locations and schedules for daily blackouts.=20 According to national energy secretary Afonso Henriques, a 20% reduction in consumpti= on would amount to a cut of six hours a day. 
Here  are the slides on PGE 
FYI 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
Outstanding outcome- Ray, this was an incredible result given the challenging context, to say the least....You should feel quite proud of this achievment- Thanks! Linda Robertson 05/14/2001 01:06 PM 
Excellent, and congratulations. Ray Alvarez 05/14/2001 12:34 PM 
The rate case that the governmental affairs group filed in January, on behalf of Transredes, has come to a very successful conclusion and the new rates will go into effect towards the end of this month.  The rates are not much lower than what we filed for, and represent a very significant increase over the previous rates.  The tariff methodology and revised regulations, put into effect by the Supreme Decree, were followed to the letter by the regulator despite political pressure to arbitrarily keep rates down.  The deliverables here were to (1) obtain a tariff methodology via Supreme Decree that would make the company finance-able / rescue it from dire financial straits and (2) file a rate case and prosecute it to obtain hard rates in accordance with the tariff methodology.  This second deliverable has now been completed. Transredes has had a bond issue pending since last year due to the uncertainty about rates; it is my understanding that the financial market loved the ruling and that Transredes sold $40 million worth of bonds in about 5 minutes!  This ruling should also significantly increase Transredes's market value, relative to Enron's efforts to sell its interest in the company. 
Gentlemen, I am delighted to report that SIRESE approved substantial increases in TR's tariffs consistent with the Law and Regulation.  The details are :- Existing Tariff SIRESE Approved % Increase TR/CLHB Proposed TR/CLHB % Increase Gas Export (including surcharges)  $0.18  $0.2205  22.5%  $0.26 (excluding RG)  44.4% Liquids Domestic    $1.05  $2.46  134.3%  $3.25    209.5% Liquids Export     $1.55  $2.31  49%  $3.35    116.1% CLHB's tariffs were also approved as follows $1.19  $2.20  84.9%  $3.528 196.5% As you can see we did substantially better than CLHB (comparable with our liquids domestic) !! We will get a detailed report on the assumptions used by SIRESE to reach their conclusions on Monday, but our inteligence suggests the following :- 1. Export gas volumes increased to 100% TR capacity, and 100% GSA + Cuiaba 2 assumed for SDA and TEMIN purposes 2. RG Compresion project deleted 3. Interest rate reduced to 10 or 10.5 % i.e. the rate in our bond issue 4. Liquids expansion in the South reduced 5. Some continuity of service CAPEX reduced 6. Unknown OPEX reduction and maybe a change to the OPEX allocation between concesions 7. OCC in service date slipped from 2003 to 2004. 8. Debt/Equity assumption changed from 60/40 to 70/30 Our strategy to respond to each of these points is as follows :- 1. Volumes.  Covered by 8% rule, we can blete but can expect little back here.  Clearly we will appeal if volumes exceed installed capacity in the short term i.e. 2002/2003. 2. RG Compression - not worth fighting for since we don't even have the support of BG 3. Interest Rate - We'll get this back when we do a tariff  revision and actual rates are used.  When we get the detail we will appeal if Jan feels we have concrete grounds i.e. commision costs etc. are omited. 4. Liquids Expansion in the South.  Here we intend to do a detailed analysis of exactly what has been deleted and as a result what liquids/gas production will be shut in.  If possible all assumptions to be agreed with the affected producers (PB, BG, Vintage and Chaco).  We will then write to those producers(copy SIRESE , VMEH etc.) stating that on their recommendation the project scope was reduced by SIRESE.  We will give them an estimate of the lost liquids/gas production (in both volume and cash terms) resultant from this decision.  We will tell them that since they proposed these reductions we have no intention of appealing them but invite them to appeal. 5. Continuity of Service Capex.  We need to see the detail here.  We will take the moral high ground and be absolutely clear that we are not prepared to compromise our safety and environmental standards.  We need to see exactly what has been removed, but my thought is that if that means we are unable to provide some services (e.g. LPG transportation) or the continued operation of some liquids laterals, we should write to those producers affected suggesting that if they wish these services to be continued they need to appeal the decision.  Again since this is Capex we will get it back in the end on tariff revisions as long as the expenditure is approved on an annual basis in the SIRESE budget process. 6. OPEX - need to see the detail on Monday. 7. OCC - will not appeal - we need to do a detailed study to develop an OCC strategy. 8. Debt/Equity ratio.  Strictly speaking what has been done is in accordance with the Law/Regulation - the regulation says the maximum allowed equity is 40%.  However, we have very strong grounds to appeal since : a) we are currently miles away from 60/40 let alone 70/30, b) we can only borrow for CAPEX (as per bond issue and the policy of all/most banks/lending institutions) with the case presented in the rate case if we borrow to cover 100% of CAPEX we can easily demonstrate that we are still miles away from 60/40.  We intend to fight this one very hard using all the external/independant help we can get. As you are all aware our big exposure with the rate case was that the much needed substantial increase in liquids tariffs would not be approved and we would be subjected to some form of arbitary cut.  This has not happened SIRESE has now approved and hence owns these substantial increases.  Having got the big hike our job is now to claw back as much as we can from the above strategy in the full knowledge that the results of these efforts will be much smaller and hence managable increases. Attached is an analysis of the individual impacts on the tariff of the above points and the corporate model using the new tariff with our volume assumptions (i.e. the worst case). Regards, Doug 
As we discussed....... as much flesh as we can put on this by midday tommorrow would be quite helpful. I would think there are significant aggregation opportunities available to us once this is implemented. Let me know what else you need from me. Thanks. 
FYI 
FYI ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontiereconomics.com> on 05/21/2001 09:19:19 AM Please respond to <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> 
Rick: Please find attached a short memo regarding last week's call with Jim and the Enron RTO team. It also has some thoughts on what we might cover with Steve K. at 2:00 p.m. CDT today. Some other time I would like to have a quick chat about how we move to the next step with the RTOs. It strikes me that there has been a real absence of cleare-headed thinking in the stakeholder chin-wagging sessions. If FERC will not impose a single design - on an abbreviated timeframe - is there another way to add some economic logic into the equation? Speak to you later... Seabron This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com - 01-05-21 SA Memo to Rick Shapiro on RTO conference call.doc 
FYI 
Here's a first draft of the emergency powers memo Sarah put together with V&E.  We are still awaiting one more section on the Federal Reserve's authority.  As you will note, there is remarkable authority vested in the President, including eminent domain.  Please note page 7, which read in combination with footnote #4 gives wide authority to the Federal government. Let's decide soon how we want to use this memo.  Thanks. - 140855_1.DOC 
Mitch, Don't kill me, just call. Attached are  revised slides, revised as follows: 1. Cover page adds ""OPUC"" and changes the date to today's date 2. The first bullet under the FERC timeline -- added statement that FERC order is more likely to be issued towards the end of the year 3. Under Additional Information Required -- included statement that the delivered price test on the Alturas Line should include various buyback options for Sierra from its divested generators 4. Under Issues to be Resolved -- consolidated three bullets into two discussing the potential impact California plays  on FERC's action on the merger 5. Deleted the bullet under the SEC slide stating that the SEC could begin considering the application before FERC  issues its final order -- we could not verify this with Joanne, and Sam Behrends said he thinks the SEC is unlikely to act on the application (due to workload) before FERC issues its order. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
Can you all prepare briefing paper for Ken on Oliver as well as those we don't support? Thanks. 
Let's discuss when you're back in- not urgent. 
The attached memo has been approved by Linda Robertson, Lisa Yoho, and Chris Long.  Additionally, we have a call memo for Ken Lay, that we will forward on early next week. Chris Long will be in touch on Tuesday to help coordinate the recommended calls. Thanks, Larry Decker (202) 466-9163 
Please note, the revised matrix sent minutes ago has been revised once again.  Please utilize the ""3rd Revision"" (noted at bottom right hand corner of page) Critical Path Matrix which is attached to this e:mail. Thanks gngr 
Enclosed is revised regulatory "" issues"" memo that  served as the basis for discussion at yesterday's regulatory  review  meeting--- the only outstanding issue , as I just communicated to Charles Still at Skadden, is confirmation of  the fact that there are no antitrust approvals required in South Korea relative to SK- that confirmation should be forthcoming from local counsel this evening.  Lisa- I assume you will see this gets to Bill Gathmann immediately so he can  forward on to regional general counsel for final sign-off. 
At some point very soon, we need to talk about how the whole range of contacts that need to be made in D.C. will be made- Hillings does not know about the deal as far as I know. Let's talk before the end of the week. Thanks. 
Because this whole issue is important to of our projects -Gaza, Guatemala, I wanted you to have an idea of the strategies being considered. Nothing is definitive, they want to lay our the risks and approaches necessary to protect all projects and relationships. If you have any thoughts concerning the approach, let me know! I will keep you posted as things unfold. 
FYI.  Keith 
For your review: 
Sorry, I forgot the attachments. 
I think this looks good and is more than sufficient. Thanks. 
Attached is a version of the Stanley statement which I have revised following our discussion with Glenn Leslie.  As I looked at it, I didn't think that any changes to the text were  required and that what was needed was an introductory note explaining the purpose and intended use of the statement. Let me know what you think and if you think any further changes are needed. Thanks, Aleck 
I hope this one is okay. Lisa. 
There appears to be a pattern forming.  The administration seems to make a= =20 scene just prior to large events (e.g., Davis' letters calling for wholesal= e=20 caps just prior to the ISO Board vote, and now this on the eve of the joint= =20 Assembly/Senate hearing scheduled for today). In other late-breaking news.  On the heels of this press conference, I=20 received late last evening from Loretta Lynch's chief of staff a copy of a= =20 proposed decision Lynch will release today reversing last Thursday's decisi= on=20 rejecting (0-5) retail price caps in San Diego.  The draft decision she=20 proposes would establish an ""interim"" retail rate cap only for SDG&E=20 residential and small commercial customers.  She proposes to use a ""balanci= ng=20 account"" to finance the cap.  Though it looks like the ""interim"" cap would= =20 extend through December 2003, there is one place in the decision that state= s=20 the cap should only extend through December 2000. ""Karen Edson"" <kedson@ns.net> on 08/09/2000 06:58:13 PM 
Governor Davis held a press conference today at which he accused ""out-of-state generators"" of price gouging and market manipulation.  He called on FERC to expedite their investigation of the market and to provide for consumer rebates if FERC cannot conclude that California prices are 
As we discussed....... as much flesh as we can put on this by midday tommorrow would be quite helpful. I would think there are significant aggregation opportunities available to us once this is implemented. Let me know what else you need from me. Thanks. 
purchase excess power from CDWR's long-term contracts 
Here is the revised presentation. 
2 e-mails attached 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T = DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel T= aub  Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray= Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electric= ity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a= misdirected e-mail.  The e-mail, containing data on California's power pur= chases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Da= vis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on= the office's press list, he said.  Davis is fighting disclosure of state p= ower purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contract= s. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market i= nvoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed= through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, w= hich are burdened by debt.  ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of= the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of t= he day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said.  Accord= ing to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity = for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to li= ght 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $14= 9.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accura= te.  Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a me= gawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloombe= rg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, a= ccording to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on= the day-ahead market.  The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-ma= rket purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying str= ategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legis= lators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days aft= er they are signed.   
Mark, Your site is finally activated. Real interesting. Worth a look Link to the DWR Contracts.=20 http://www.sco.ca.gov/power_page/contract_info.htm Ban An interesting article too: Connell: Power cost twice Davis' figure=20 July 6, 2001=20 By JOHN HOWARD The Orange County Register=20 SACRAMENTO -- The average cost of electricity purchased under $43 billion o= f worth of state contracts is actually more than double the amount reported= by Gov. Gray Davis' administration, state Controller Kathleen Connell said= Thursday.=20 Connell said her staff's analysis put the per-megawatt average at $170, com= pared with $69 to $79 estimated by Davis.=20 Connell stopped short of suggesting that the higher cost could drive anothe= r increase in rates, although consumer groups said the higher amount likely= would require some future increase.=20 The controller, who writes the state's checks, said her figures assume fixe= d prices for natural gas over the duration of the contracts, which range fr= om a few months to 20 years.=20 The administration, noting that nearly half its contracts are pegged to the= fluctuating market price of natural gas, said costs on many of the contrac= ts would decline over time.=20 Consumer groups were skeptical of the administration's numbers.=20 ""You could cut these numbers in various ways and make different averages, l= ong-range or short-range contracts, peak power or nonpeak, and probably eit= her average could be defended mathematically,"" said Nettie Hoge of The Util= ity Reform Network. ""We can't tell you whether it's $69 or $170 - the contr= acts are very convoluted and complex.""=20 
Here is the revised presentation. 
2 e-mails attached 
You hate to say that someone can't do anything right, but THESE GUYS CAN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. California Power-Buying Data Disclosed in Misdirected E-Mail By Daniel Taub Sacramento, California, July 6 (Bloomberg) -- California Governor Gray Davis's office released data on the state's purchases in the spot electricity market -- information Davis has been trying to keep secret -- through a misdirected e-mail. The e-mail, containing data on California's power purchases yesterday, was intended for members of the governor's staff, said Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio. It was accidentally sent to some reporters on the office's press list, he said. Davis is fighting disclosure of state power purchases, saying it would compromise negotiations for future contracts. This week, Davis appealed a state judge's order to release spot-market invoices, purchase orders and confirmation sheets for power contracts signed through June 27. The state is buying electricity on behalf of utilities, which are burdened by debt. ``It's an internal document,'' Maviglio said of the e-mail. ``We have a meeting every morning where we discuss issues of the day.'' The e-mail contained minutes of today's meeting, he said. According to the e-mail, the state bought 283,000 megawatt- hours of electricity for $37.4 million yesterday. One megawatt- hour is enough electricity to light 750 typical California homes for an hour. Prices ranged from $25 to $149.99 a megawatt-hour. Maviglio said the information in the e-mail is accurate. Power for next-day delivery during peak-use hours averaged $79.67 a megawatt-hour on the California-Oregon border yesterday, according to Bloomberg Energy Service. California paid an average of $132 on the spot market, according to the e-mail. Prices on the spot market tend to be higher than on the day-ahead market. The governor has proposed releasing data on spot-market purchases once a quarter, arguing that the state uses power-buying strategies tailored to each season. Lawyers for the media and Republican legislators say state law requires disclosure of contracts within seven days after they are signed. 
Mark, Your site is finally activated. Real interesting. Worth a look Link to the DWR Contracts. http://www.sco.ca.gov/power_page/contract_info.htm Ban An interesting article too: Connell: Power cost twice Davis' figure July 6, 2001 By JOHN HOWARD The Orange County Register SACRAMENTO -- The average cost of electricity purchased under $43 billion of worth of state contracts is actually more than double the amount reported by Gov. Gray Davis' administration, state Controller Kathleen Connell said Thursday. Connell said her staff's analysis put the per-megawatt average at $170, compared with $69 to $79 estimated by Davis. Connell stopped short of suggesting that the higher cost could drive another increase in rates, although consumer groups said the higher amount likely would require some future increase. The controller, who writes the state's checks, said her figures assume fixed prices for natural gas over the duration of the contracts, which range from a few months to 20 years. The administration, noting that nearly half its contracts are pegged to the fluctuating market price of natural gas, said costs on many of the contracts would decline over time. Consumer groups were skeptical of the administration's numbers. ""You could cut these numbers in various ways and make different averages, long-range or short-range contracts, peak power or nonpeak, and probably either average could be defended mathematically,"" said Nettie Hoge of The Utility Reform Network. ""We can't tell you whether it's $69 or $170 - the 
FYI 
MEMORANDUM TO: Regulatory Affairs Committee Power Marketers Working Group FROM: Joe Hartsoe, Regulatory Affairs Committee Chair Bob Reilley, Power Marketers Working Group Chair Julie Simon, Vice President of Policy Mark Bennett, Senior Manager of Policy Erin Perrigo, Manager of Policy DATE: April 27, 2001 RE: California Order Proxy Price Calculation We have had an initial opportunity to review FERC's Order Establishing Prospective Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the California Wholesale Electric Markets and Establishing an Investigation of Public Utility Rates in Wholesale Western Energy Markets, and will provide a more detailed summary early next week. However, questions have arisen as to the calculation of the proxy price when a stage 1, 2 or 3 emergency is called.  In initial discussions with FERC staff, we have determined that the price mitigation will work as follows: For the following day, the ISO will publish at 8 a.m. an average of the daily prices published in Gas Daily for all California delivery points, as well as emissions costs.  The emissions costs will be calculated by the ISO using the Cantor Fitzgerald Environmental Brokerage Service.  The marginal unit will then be determined via the single price auction in the hour, and the ISO will then take the previously submitted and confidential heat rate data and multiply it by the posted average gas price and emissions costs for that hour to determine the market clearing price.  The ISO will not be calculating an estimated market-clearing price in advance. 
FYI- Seabron, as most of you know, is a consultant for us... his thoughts on FERC price cap order. 
I agree- it's not clear to me whether Cal. squares off with the feds on the RTO issue. All in all , a bad order that will only worsen the situation, not improve things( I'm saying that w/o benefit of order which is'nt out yet. Any thoughts? ""Seabron Adamson"" <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com> on 04/26/2001 02:14:35 PM 
Rick: Sorry I missed your call. I had just popped out for a coffee. I'll just wait until next week before proceeding, after I get some comments from you guys. I should pretty much be around all next week so you can catch me whenever. I suppose you have been following the FERC California decision pretty closely. How CA gets integrated into a new RTO appears to be the key question. I would be surprised if RTO West even wants them in, given the credit risk issues, etc. Seab This e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged and/or confidential information.  If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail, and any attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at (617) 354-0060 and permanently delete the original and any copy of any e-mail and any printout thereof. Seabron Adamson Frontier Economics Inc Two Brattle Square Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Ph:  (617) 354-0060 Fax: (617) 354-0640 seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com www.frontier-economics.com 
These were the only articles w/ polling info on rate increases that Ann could find.  I don't think the Chronicle has done an independent poll. 
Here's ad campaign that I found through Olivia( Davis's person in D.C.) ....if this is it , not so bad. 
I think you're missing a ""solve"" in last sentence. 
EPSA's california story. 
- Updated California The Real Story 1-01.doc 
? ? ? - Final pt1.doc - Final pt2.doc 
Rich Shapiro requested this chart for Ken Lay. Thanks for Kristian for doing the heavy lifting. I have spruced up the chart a bit and turned into a Power Point chart.  Open the .xls file only if you want to modify the source data. Alan Comnes 
What time is call and what is #? 
I agree w/ Mary and made this point earlier. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 12:22 PM 
I'm not sure whether we want Hoecker to make the fourth point.  What do others think? 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
FYI- Study by Paul Joskow and Alfred Kahn that concludes, among other things, that market fundamentals in California do not fully account for price levels in Californis this past summer. 
FYI __________________ FYI 
Guys: I thought you might be interested in this paper by Joskow on the California crisis. Regards . . . Colin - CalifWithholdJoskow-Khan.pdf 
Great news and congrats! Robert Hemstock@ECT 11/26/2000 01:19 AM 
Rick, You will recall Steve Kean participated in a conference call on Nov 14 with John Lavorato et al to discuss emergency Pool Rule changes that the Power Pool intended to implement in two days.  We developed a 5 point action plan to deal with the proposed Power Pool rule changes that would have a significant impact on the value of Enron's PPA investment in Alberta. By way of update to Steve, you may wish to brief him that: 1) It appears the Power Pool will not proceed with the rule change designed to exclude importers from setting pool price.  They will proceed with dispatch risk rule changes but we have given input on those too and I am optimistic that Enron will be able to live with these rule changes, the final wording of which we should see on Monday, 2) We  have set up a meeting with the Minister of Resource Development (you, Rob Milnthorp and I will attend) on December 11 to encourage the Alberta Government to stay the course, and 3) This week we will finalize our ""Lessons from other Jurisdictions"" document (that Steve sent me materials to include in) and will provide it to the Alberta Government and Power Pool and then follow up with them. 
The attached memo provides an update on the status of the Power Pool's further consideration of the proposed rule changes.  In summary, it appears the Pool will not proceed with the proposal to exclude import offers from setting pool price but will recommend a rule that reduces ability of suppliers to become price takers on volumes that were originally priced too high to clear the merit order.  I will receive more specifics on the dispatch risk rule change on Monday. Regards, Rob 
Can we make it happen? 
I agree w/ chris's recommendation- you too? 
At his request, I met Lee Sachs, Assistant Treasury Secretary, who had requested the meeting after a brief conversation recently.  Lee said that senior-level negotiations led by Secretary Summers were initiated last week between the CFTC and SEC and that progress was being made on the single stock futures issue (the major issue postponing movement of the legislation). As you know, the House completed committee work on HR 4541 before it recessed.  The bill will now is pending before the Rules Committee where differences will be worked out between the three different Committee versions (Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking).  The Senate Agriculture Committee passed out the Senate version in July.  However, the bill is not moving quickly in the Senate due to Senator Phil Gramm's desire to see significant changes made to the legislation (not directly related to our energy language). Last week at the Republican Convention, I asked the Senator about the bill and he said they were working on it, but much needs to be changed for his support.  More telling perhaps, were Wendy Gramm's comments that she would rather the current bill die if a better bill can be passed next year. What this means is that we must, at the least, remove Senator Gramm's opposition to the bill to move the process and more importantly seek to gain his support of the legislation. Lee Sachs message was just that.  I told Lee that we shared his desire to move the legislation as long as it contains a full exclusion for all non-agriculture commodities (including metals).  He said that we would have a difficult time defending the metals provision politically. But, Lee said  ""we 
Great job! Chris Long@ENRON 07/27/2000 04:34 PM 
Today we were successful in killing an amendment that was offered by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House Banking Committee during its markup of the Commodities Future Modernization Act of 2000.  This amendment would have stricken language that provided an exclusion from CFTC jurisdiction for all non-agriculture transactions (energy, metals, broadband).  The amendment failed, largely due to pressure from Enron, by a vote of 20-12.  Rep. Ken Bensten (D-TX) joined Chairman Leach in speaking against the amendment. In more positive movement, yesterday the House Commerce Committee passed its version on the bill including a provision that exempts metal trading multilateral trading facilities from CFTC jurisdiction. Congress goes into recess tomorrow and we will have a better sense on how the Rules Committee plans to reconcile differences between the versions of the bill later this week.  The Senate is still the unknown. Call me at any question - Chris 
Bradley: We have learned that two amendments will be offered tomorrow my Rep. Maloney: #1  - Strikes lines 15-25 from page 41 and the entire page 42 (these are the sections of HR 4541 as reported out of the Ag. Committee which address the exemption for all most non-agriculture commodities trade on an electronic facility. #2  - Request a comprehensive study on the President's working group, DOE, and FERC. We strongly oppose amendment #1 which intends to more heavily regulate the energy derivatives industry.  Please have Rep. Bentsen voice his opposition to this amendment.  My guess is that amendment #2 should and will be ruled non-germane, however this is not a compromise we would support. Thanks - Chris (202) 466-9158 ""Edgell, Bradley"" <Bradley.Edgell@mail.house.gov> on 07/26/2000 05:31:08 PM 
Chris, I will look this over and get back to you. > ---------- 
Congrats! Great job for you and everyone else in D.C.( & Houston)  office that assisted. Thanks. Chris Long 12/16/2000 10:16 AM 
Congress Passes the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 Late Friday afternoon, December 15, Congress passed the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.  The purpose of the Act is to eliminate unnecessary regulation of commodity futures exchanges and other entities falling within the  coverage of the Commodities Exchange Act (""CEA"") and the provide legal certainty with regard to certain futures and derivatives transactions.  By enacting such changes, Congress intends to promote product innovation and to enhance the competitive position of US financial markets. Certain provisions of the Act open the door for Enron's further product innovation and growth.  Specifically, the Act provides important legal certainty for energy and other transactions occuring both on an over-the-counter (OTC) bilateral basis and on multilateral electronic trading platforms.  Enron was a leading advocate of passage of this legislation. Bilateral Transactions Under the Act, bilateral transactions in all commodities (other than agriculture commodities) that do not occur on trading facility (i.e. not on a multi-party exchange) are exempt from most provisions of the CEA as long as the transactions are entered solely between ""eligible contract participants""(i.e. persons and certain legal entities satisfying capital thresholds and other requirements under the Act).  This provision essentially codifies and expands existing CFTC exemptions for swaps and forward contracts, thereby eliminating a degree of legal ambiguity that has frustrated product innovation and growth. Multilateral Transactions In addition, the Act creates a broad exemption for any agreement, contract or transaction in commodities (other than agriculture commodities) so long as they the transactions are between ""eligible commercial participants"", are entered into on a ""principle-to-principle basis"" and that take place on a multi-party ""electronic facility"".  This exemption could facilitate expansion of EnronOnline to allow for multi-party transactions, however certain legal requirements will have to be met. Other Transactions The Act also creates a broad exclusion for a number of commodities that are of interest to Enron, including ""credit risk measure"" commodities and weather derivatives .  Again, the derivative transaction exclusion will have to meet certain legal thresholds. This legislation has been over six years in the making and the collective support of many Enron employees has been crucial.  Thank you to all that have contributed to the passage on this important legislation.  We will have a more through legal summary of this legislation in the near future. Do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 466- 9158 of Mark Taylor at (713) 853-7459 with any questions. 
What do you think? 
In a recent organizational memo, I mentioned what a great time this is to b= e=20 at Enron.  I believe that more strongly than ever, given the new markets we= =20 are entering, the enhanced focus of the company on markets and regions arou= nd=20 the world that best fit with our core competencies, and the phenomenal grow= th=20 of the company, perhaps best evidenced by the earnings report of the first= =20 quarter.  But, there are challenges as well: California, and its regional a= nd=20 global implications, and the general market conditions that have brought ou= r=20 stock price well off its recent highs.  With respect to each of these and= =20 other challenges, there are invariably opportunities: for example, the=20 enhanced opportunity for the FERC to finish the job of opening wholesale=20 electricity markets in the context of California; and, in the context of a= =20 lower stock price, a recognition that accelerated growth in earnings will= =20 bring the stock price to new highs in the not too distant future.  One way= =20 that earnings can grow beyond Wall Street expectations is by bringing a bit= =20 more discipline to how all of us spend money at Enron.  We in Government=20 Affairs can point to many efforts and processes that have been designed to= =20 instill that spending and resource allocation discipline in the last few=20 years.  We have always done our part, but there is always more that can be= =20 done. To increase earnings and, correspondingly, the stock price, I recently met= =20 with various Government Affairs group heads to discuss ways Government=20 Affairs can do things better and more cost effectively.  We looked at group= =20 travel costs, outside services, and other budget items.  Attached for your= =20 review and use is a copy of a new Travel Policy and new Cell Phone Policy,= =20 which I believe, will ensure consistency across the group and deliver cost= =20 savings.  Such travel policies already exist in various regions such as Enr= on=20 Europe. (Regional Business Unit travel policies will continue to be applied= ,=20 where applicable) Further, as a result of our review of the budget, we have identified saving= s=20 across the North American group in excess of 1.5 million dollars (USD).  Th= is=20 is in addition to almost 2 million dollars (USD) by which the Enron Europe= =20 Government Affairs budget has been reduced, as well as significant reductio= ns=20 that have occurred in the South American group. Finally, I have also decide= d=20 to create a global government affairs hiring committee, which will evaluate= =20 the need for any proposed hires (new and existing positions).  The purpose = of=20 the committee will be to assess whether the need is valid and, assuming it= =20 is, determine the most effective way to fill the position.  By encompassing= a=20 cross-section of the Government Affairs group globally, it is my hope that = we=20 will arrive at better hiring decisions.  The hiring committee will consist = of=20 Aleck Dadson (Toronto), Sue Nord (Houston), Jim Steffes (Houston), Paul=20 Dawson (London), Doug Wood (London), Nick O=01,Day (Tokyo), Sergio Assad (S= ao=20 Paulo), Linda Robertson (Washington) and myself.   The committee will meet = on=20 an as needed basis. I believe that these changes will allow us all the opportunity to provide= =20 more cost effective and efficient service to the business units we support.= =20 I encourage each of you to review the new policies and provide feedback.=20 Thank you 
The Government Affairs group is involved in diverse and complex activities.  Tracking and quantifying these activities is important for several obvious reasons - to keep upper management apprised of our activities; to illustrate the value added and risk managed by our group; and to keep each other properly  informed so that we can better coordinate our efforts. Currently, these activities take place on an ad-hoc manual basis, which is time-consuming and inefficient.  We have a tool already in place to track our activities - the Project Tracking database in Lotus Notes.  Currently this application is used primarily for RCR's, but beginning November 1, 2001, the Government Affairs group will use this application to track all projects and efforts  - replacing the need for manual updated spreadsheets and activity quantification ""fire-drills"".  The Projects have several features to allow capture of sub-sets of information, including Updates, Risk, Origination and Valuation. **  Please note that this will become the only way that we'll gather this information.  In other words, if you don't enter your data into Project Tracking, we won't know what you're doing! **( all other reports will be eliminated) The current Lotus Notes application will be discontinued as of October 31,2001 and will be converted to a web-based product.  You'll find the web-based version as easy or even easier to use than Lotus Notes.  Additionally, conversion to a new database structure will allow for more versatile report extraction. 
Message Points on Current Status of Company A.	Our core businesses are strong, performing well and customers continue to demonstrate their confidence in us. B.	EnronOnline experienced above average levels for number of transactions Wednesday (10/24/01), Enron recorded more than 8000 transactions with 1399 external users for a gross notional value of approximately $4 billion We continue to be the market maker of choice in wholesale gas and power C.	Our gas and power numbers indicate that our customer base is not withdrawing, closing out positions, nor reducing transaction levels with us. Indeed, customers are transacting at higher levels as they prepare their portfolios for the upcoming winter and protect themselves from price volatility. Media Q & A What did you receive from the SEC? Enron received a letter and subsequent phone call requesting that we voluntarily provide information regarding certain related party transactions. When did you receive the request from the SEC? We received a fax on Wednesday afternoon, October 19, 2001, and a phone call on Thursday afternoon, October 20, 2001. What did you do about the request from the SEC when you received it? An informal inquiry is not a material event; however, because of the high visibility of Enron and the recent public spotlight on the transaction, we convened a meeting of our Board as soon as possible.  We recommended that we announce the SEC request; the Board agreed, and we made the release prior to the market opening on Monday, October 22, 2001. What are you going to do about the request? We are cooperating fully with the SEC and see the request as an opportunity to put this issue behind us. These message points will be constantly changing and we will update you as the changes occur. Also, attached below is the Enron link for the Press Room that contains ""Frequently Asked Questions"". 
Any information or discussions that arise that may relate to PGE (Portland General Electric), e.g., the sale, regulatory approvals, FERC and wholesale market related issues should be communicated to Paul Kaufman via phone or e:mail.  Paul can be reached at 503-464-7945 or Paul.Kaufman@enron.com. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Jim: Attached are two Gov't. Affairs Org. charts, the first being the corpo= rate structure( led by me) that needs to be approved by Whalley and Kean; t= he second chart being for  ENA/EES ( led by Steffes) that is in the process= of being approved by the Offices of the Chair of both business units. The = corporate budget is approximately $2.575 million( seven professionals and t= wo support staff) while the EES/ENA budget is approximately $6.425 million(= twenty one professionals and three support staff).(These budgets  include = a million or so of ""mitigatable"" real estate leases) The corporate staff wo= uld do the following that I believe is absolutely essential( this reflects = minimal staffing and "" barebones"" effort): 1) Management for Enron of regul= atory approvals processes for PGE sale and Dynegy Acquisition and any other= asset sales that may occur( 3-3.5 FTE);2) Retention of skeletal Washington= Legislative presence(two employees with no outside services support) to en= sure that Enron's interests on Capitol Hill and with the Administration are= minimally protected and advanced. Issues include energy legislation(RTO's,= etc..), CFTC-related issues; tax issues;etc....;3) .5-1.0 FTE to manage al= l residual issues related to non EES/ENA businesses and issues; and 4) one = person to mange all state legislative and local(  including, but not limite= d to Texas and the City of Houston) issues relating to entire company.=20 Jim Steffes will bring the EES/ENA budget to closure while I'll lo= ok for direction from you and Steve as to how to quickly bring the corporat= e piece to closure with Whalley. I can't emphasize enough that this is the = absolute minimum staffing I could in good conscience recommend.(Overall,for= North America this represents a 74% reduction in the budget 2001($33 milli= on) to 2002($9 million) Thanks for all your help. =20 
A few months ago, I sent a note to the North American Government Affairs group commemorating a bit of an end point in our efforts relative to California.  In that memo, I included a quote that went as follows ? ""What we do in life echoes through eternity"".  I think of these words often and believe them more than ever, particularly after the events, both external and internal to Enron, of the last few months.  I do not know for sure what the next few weeks or months will bring for any of us, but I do know that what we've done here at Enron in Government Affairs over the last several years, whether in Houston, Washington, London, Brussels, Sao Paulo, etc. was very good and will be remembered for the positive difference that we have all made in the industries in which we have worked and for each other.  We even had a good time doing it.  The good work we do will go on for many, if not, all of us . . . for some, here; for others, elsewhere. Regardless of what the future holds, we should all be quite proud of what we have accomplished here and how it has been accomplished.  My personal appreciation for all that you have done as well as at having had the opportunity to be part of a group that, unfortunately, will be inalterably impacted and changed over the next few weeks, is boundless.  Irrespective of where these changes may take any one of us, I will continue to do all I can to earn your trust and respect. On a more holiday-related note, for those in the U.S., who are working this week, please feel free to leave as early as possible on Wednesday in advance of Thanksgiving to spend time with your families or loved ones.  For those not celebrating the American Thanksgiving, you too should try and take some additional time for yourself and families over the next few days, work and business demands permitting. Thank you. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Please send out Notices of Termination by November 30, 2001 for all retainer (fixed payments) agreements (lobbying, legal, consulting, etc...)  We need to end all payments as of December 31, 2001.  Thank you very much. Ginger Dernehl Administrative Coordinator Global Government Affairs Phone# 713-853-7751 
Last Thursday, I made the first attached presentation to the FERC Staff at the power marketer's meeting on the FERC's investigation of the wholesale market in the West (and in particular California).  Ellen Wolf (of Tabors Caramanis) and I created this presentation building on previous presentations by Tim Belden and Dave Parquet.  In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: There isn't much FERC can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market.  We discouraged FERC from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the California and the rest of the West as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the Commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The IOUs have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity.  They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at ISO real time prices.  My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The Commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in Powerpoint.  When you do, you will find there are many ""hidden"" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to Staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (Scott Miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than Staff's previous meetings with the IOUs and the generators.  Based on the numerous phone calls I've been getting, the Staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that Tim sent to Scott Miller on Friday.  Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message.  On Friday, Tim talked to Scott and answered some additional questions.  Tim said that Enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory PX buying requirement and would like the IOUs to be able to buy from Enron Online.  He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . 
Rick, Below is the transcript of the story you asked about this morning.  I have a video copy of it as well that you can view upon your return.  Thanks, Ann 