A backup seat and a backup computer have been assigned to you.  Please read this communication in detail. Purpose:  Net Works has developed a backup plan for possible work stoppages after moving to the new building.  A wider business continuity plan will be rolled out next year. Location:  Large areas of the 30th and 31st floors of the current building, Enron Center North, will be set aside for recovery purposes.  Your name has been put on the list and you will be notified once the seat assignments are finalized.  Locations will also be posted at the entryways on the 30th and 31st floors. Timing.  Through November, backup seats assignments will be announced as each trading group moves to the new building.  The backup seats will be available at least to January 1st. Testing.  Test times to try the backup PC and to familiarize yourself with your backup location will be announced by the IT team as the locations are finished. Telephones.   Only regular phones will be available.  For those with speed dial phones, the IT team will download the numbers and leave them on a piece of paper at your seat assignment.  Because the numbers change frequently, we ask that you rely on keeping track of the numbers yourself and use the number lists as a last resort. Other supplies.  The IT team is not responsible for non-technical or special needs.  If you rely on hard copy forms, address books, etc, you will need to be sure to leave appropriate supplies when you test the computer, or bring supplies along if you are asked to move to your backup seat. Limited Access.  The backup floor is not meant as a backup day-to-day work environment.  To keep the equipment functioning and secure, we plan to limit access except for test times and if we need to invoke the plan because of a work stoppage. Escalation Procedures.  The plan will be  as follows: I.	During regular business hours A.  Announcement.  You will be notified via the PA system if you need to move to the backup location. -OR- B.  No Announcement.  If an obvious problem like a fire or power shutdown occurs, for example, all personnel with a seat assignment will be expected to make their way to their backup seat without notification. II.	After hours For after hours issues, greeters will announce the move to the backup location as people arrive to work.  E-mails and voice mails will also be distributed. 
A backup seat and a backup computer have been assigned to you.  Please read this communication in detail. Purpose:  Net Works has developed a backup plan for possible work stoppages after moving to the new building.  A wider business continuity plan will be rolled out next year. Location:  Large areas of the 30th and 31st floors of the current building, Enron Center North, will be set aside for recovery purposes.  Your name has been put on the list and you will be notified once the seat assignments are finalized.  Locations will also be posted at the entryways on the 30th and 31st floors. Timing.  Through November, backup seats assignments will be announced as each trading group moves to the new building.  The backup seats will be available at least to January 1st. Testing.  Test times to try the backup PC and to familiarize yourself with your backup location will be announced by the IT team as the locations are finished. Telephones.   Only regular phones will be available.  For those with speed dial phones, the IT team will download the numbers and leave them on a piece of paper at your seat assignment.  Because the numbers change frequently, we ask that you rely on keeping track of the numbers yourself and use the number lists as a last resort. Other supplies.  The IT team is not responsible for non-technical or special needs.  If you rely on hard copy forms, address books, etc, you will need to be sure to leave appropriate supplies when you test the computer, or bring supplies along if you are asked to move to your backup seat. Limited Access.  The backup floor is not meant as a backup day-to-day work environment.  To keep the equipment functioning and secure, we plan to limit access except for test times and if we need to invoke the plan because of a work stoppage. Escalation Procedures.  The plan will be  as follows: I.	During regular business hours A.  Announcement.  You will be notified via the PA system if you need to move to the backup location. -OR- B.  No Announcement.  If an obvious problem like a fire or power shutdown occurs, for example, all personnel with a seat assignment will be expected to make their way to their backup seat without notification. II.	After hours For after hours issues, greeters will announce the move to the backup location as people arrive to work.  E-mails and voice mails will also be distributed. 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
Thanks for rounding up the tickets for the Orange Bowl.  You can mail them to me, or just hold them until I see you after Christmas.  Mike's wife decided not to make the trip, so he won't be using the tickets.  Jody Crook will use the other two tickets. Lunch during the week between Christmas and New Years sounds great to me.  I will be working that week, but would be glad to meet you guys at Champions for lunch if that is best.  Or if you are game for Irma's, just let me know when you would like to come downtown. --Sally ""Jacobs, Ted K"" <tjacobs@ou.edu> on 12/12/2000 09:46:16 AM 
Sally/Mike, I will be in Houston the week after Christmas (12/26-12/29) and was wondering if the two of you were going to be in the office, and if so, would you be available for lunch? In talking with David Beck, he was going to try to arrange a golf game (Mike, me, Richard Kimberlin and David) one of those afternoons at Champions. If that is possible, then maybe lunch before golf might work. If not, then I can meet you downtown when convenient. Let me know what your schedules are like and I will plan my schedule accordingly. Also, I need to know if I need to mail the Orange Bowl tickets to both of you separately or just one of you. Didn't know if you are planning on going to Miami together? I should receive the tickets in the next day or two and will do whatever. Ought to be a fun trip, as it has definitely been awhile since the Sooners have been to Miami. Anyway, let me know if you are available for lunch/gold or just lunch. Hope you all have a wonderful holiday season and most of all get to spend time with your families! Ted K. Jacobs Director Energy Management The University of Oklahoma 307 West Brooks, Room 218 Norman, OK  73019-4007 (405) 325-0758 (405) 325-2096 fax Email: tjacobs@ou.edu Website: www.ou.edu/business/em - C.DTF 
Did Debbie talk with the two of you before putting together her memo?  Is she raising this to me because she wasn't comfortable with the outcome of her conversations with you two, or did she skip that step?  Just curious, before I send any type of response.  I would need details from you around the process for updates to Entelligence and Global Counterparty.  Surely one feeds the other?  --Sally 
I have attended three ASE's and would be happy to visit with you about my opinions.  I will ask Patti to schedule a meeting.  --Sally Tim O'Rourke@ENRON 11/03/2000 08:29 AM 
Sally, Cindy Olson said you'd be a good person to talk with on this subject, as someone who has considerable experience with this concept. I'm doing some research on the ASE and whether to create something internally for Enron use. The key questions are: which would be the aspects we'd keep and which would be the aspects we'd discard.? Can I get 15-30 minutes of your time to discuss in the next week or two? Tim, Patti, If Sally gives the OK, can you call Stacey on 30945 and set up a time please? Thanks 
Well, I didn't get this out to you before I left the office last night.  I was still pouring over bonus info until 9:30, and decided to call it quits at that point.  Here are some of the things that I would like to do next week: review your action plan to move the close and officialization of London books to same day, to replicate, if appropriate,  an Operational Risk information session for London counterparts (you and I can  review early in the week what we are doing here in Houston today and modify the info for Europe) discuss the Doorstep process with you and, if you deem appropriate, your business controllers in the   London office who will participate in Doorstep reviews this year (clear up and questions and get your input  on how to continually improve the process), discuss with Mark Pickering the technology dependencies of the London office related to speeding up   London's information for the corporate DPR do some planning with you for the February 12 & 13 ASE discuss the feasibility of utilizing our operational pricing model in London discuss your ideas and thoughts on CommodityLogic and other ideas around potential commercialization of  mid and back office services In addition, I would like to meet with anyone in the London office that you think would be beneficial.  Through Nicki Scott, I understand that Michael Brown would like to meet with me so we are setting that up.  I will also spend some time with Beth Apollo and Ted Murphy while I am there.  And I plan to meet with Fernley as well. Any other suggestions on topics or people to see? 
I hope that your holidays were wonderful.  I thoroughly enjoyed the week of vacation that I took before Christmas.  It was fun to be home with the children, although I certainly worked hard -- up every night until very late either baking or wrapping gifts or writing notes on last minute Christmas cards. I plan to be in the London office next week.  I will leave Houston on Sunday evening and will arrive in London Monday morning.  After a stop by the hotel, I should be in the office after lunch.  I plan to be there through Thursday, and will fly back to Houston on Friday morning. I have a number of things planned to review with Mike Jordan.  Some of the major goals for the trip are: to review Mike Jordan's action plan to move the close and officialization of London books to same  day, to replicate an Operational Risk information session for London counterparts (we are doing this in Houston  on January 11 for managers and above within Operations for EA, EGM and EIM), to discuss the Doorstep process with Mike's business controllers in the London office who will participate in  Doorstep reviews this year, to discuss with Mark Pickering the technology dependencies of the London office related to speeding up  London's information for the corporate DPR I also plan to visit with Mike on the feasibility of utilizing our operational pricing model in London and his thoughts on CommodityLogic and other ideas around potential commercialization of mid and back office services.  Mike also has some members of the London team that he would like for me to meet. Other things planned are spending some time with Beth Apollo and Ted Murphy. Ted and I will have a conference call with Shona and Cassandra (and team) for a download on the New York metals Doorstep review that is taking place this week. I would welcome your participation in any or all of the above.  In addition, I hope that you may have some time for the two of us to touch base.  Also, if you have an opening for lunch or dinner, do let me know.  I have been in the throws of bonus allocations this week, but hope that today I can start to 
This one is pretty funny... 
The other place in San Antonio is Westin's La Canterra.  I will contact both and get info.  Then we should make reservations soon.  I'll call Cindy tonight and fill her in.  -Sally ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 01/10/2001 05:46:04 PM 
> > > I love it!!  I think that is perfect.  Much easier for my family and > probably for everyone else.  That way we can probably do this on their > anniversary, assuming that works for everyone.  Removing some of the > travel > hassels should mean that everyone would have a better time, too.  Hyatt > Hill Country is one obvious choice - I was there in November and it is > still very nice.  There is a newer resort in the area also.  I can't think > of the name of it offhand, but David knows and I will get the name from > him > tonight and call you.  --Sally > > > > > ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 01/10/2001 02:41:12 PM > 
> > > Sally - A new idea popped into my head - I don't know if it makes things > easier - or if everyone would like the idea, but here goes: > > What if we gathered, as a whole family, for a couple of days, somewhere > easy > - in Texas - like the Hill Country Hyatt, or somehwere in Galveston, or > the > YO Ranch or somewhere.   We might spend one night or two - plan something > fun for the kids, get a big suite where the adults could toast mom and dad > with champagne and appetizers - spend time playing games, whatever - just > go > somewhere easy - and just spend a day or two. > > Then, at that event, we could give Mom and Dad a gift certificate for a > more > special (and far-away) trip for them - like a four-day weekend in San > Francisco - or somewhere they'd really like to go. > > This would eliminate travel hassles for all of the families involved - but > provide us all an opporunity (albeit condensed) to get together - and Mom 
I plan to work out of the London office during the week of January 15.  I will leave Houston on Sunday and will be in the London office starting around noon on Monday.  I will be back in the Houston office on Monday, January 22. The primary goals of the trip are: to work with Mike Jordan on an action plan to move the close and officialization of London books to same  day, to replicate an Operational Risk information session for London counterparts (we are doing this in Houston  on January 11 per my e:mail to you for managers and above within Operations), to hold a training session for business controllers in the London office who will participate in Doorstep   reviews this year (outside EEL), to discuss with Mark Pickering the technology dependencies of the London office related to speeding up  London's information for the corporate DPR Patti Thompson (x39106) will have a detailed itinerary in hand if you need 
I love it!!  I think that is perfect.  Much easier for my family and probably for everyone else.  That way we can probably do this on their anniversary, assuming that works for everyone.  Removing some of the travel hassels should mean that everyone would have a better time, too.  Hyatt Hill Country is one obvious choice - I was there in November and it is still very nice.  There is a newer resort in the area also.  I can't think of the name of it offhand, but David knows and I will get the name from him tonight and call you. --Sally ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 01/10/2001 02:41:12 PM 
Sally - A new idea popped into my head - I don't know if it makes things easier - or if everyone would like the idea, but here goes: What if we gathered, as a whole family, for a couple of days, somewhere easy - in Texas - like the Hill Country Hyatt, or somehwere in Galveston, or the YO Ranch or somewhere.   We might spend one night or two - plan something fun for the kids, get a big suite where the adults could toast mom and dad with champagne and appetizers - spend time playing games, whatever - just go somewhere easy - and just spend a day or two. Then, at that event, we could give Mom and Dad a gift certificate for a more special (and far-away) trip for them - like a four-day weekend in San Francisco - or somewhere they'd really like to go. This would eliminate travel hassles for all of the families involved - but provide us all an opporunity (albeit condensed) to get together - and Mom 
Right now, I am booked at 47 Park for next week.  I would love to be closer to the office, but I don't know if there is anything that makes sense.  Any suggestions?  If not something close to the office, would you suggest another spot besides 47 Park? I am committed to working on my agenda for next week before I leave the office tonight.  I will e:mail you tomorrow to see if we can schedule a time 
I will attend the meeting on Thursday, but will have to leave around 1:15 to make it to a meeting at the Doubletree where I am speaking at 1:30.  Thanks. Tammie Schoppe 01/10/2001 10:12 AM 
The ENW Staff meeting for Thursday(01/11) will be held in EB27C2 from 12:00-1:30 pm. The dial in numbers are: National dial in 1-888-285-4585 International dial in 1-304-345-7354 Participant Code: 494963 Host Code: 119283 (Louise) Please let me know if you are unable to attend. Thanks, Tammie 34220 
Jeff, thanks for taking care of this for Fred. --Sally Jeffrey C Gossett 01/10/2001 11:39 AM 
I appreciate everyone's help in making sure that all the information for Lagrasta's originated is deals is accurate.  He is now receiving a daily report with all originated deals. He has also asked that we give him the data on the deals that his group has done that do not have origination.  Therefore,  going forward we will need to put all deals for Lagrasta's group into the origination file.  Meaning,  if his group does a deal where no origination is granted,  you will need to put all the relevant information into the origination file and just put a $0 for the Origination granted on the report.  Thanks so much for your help. 
Lexi:  In our meeting last week, I thought that we handled both Greg and Ryan, and were comfortable with Round 1 interviews only (2 interviewers) with this disposition:  Greg as a keeper (wasn't he the one who worked in the career center?) and no to Ryan. I will be glad to do a phone interview this week with Enron North America Corp. 
I knew that you would still be in London.  Just thought that I would start to copy you on some things so that you could begin to get a feel for what's going on.  Yes, I will be in London next week.  Plan to fly over on Sunday night and will be in the office around noon on Monday.  I will be there through Thursday, and will plan to fly back to Houston on Friday.  Let's definitely plan to get together.  I am in the throws of bonus reviews at this moment (I am cooling my heels waiting for HR to get me info on people that were left off of my sheet), so a little later today I will focus on my schedule for next week.  I will send an e:mail later in the day to see when we can get together.  Looking forward to it.  --Sally Beth Apollo 01/09/2001 03:22 AM 
I guess you know I am here in London this week wrapping up -- wish I could be there for this meeting. Are you still coming next week?   It would be good to get together. Let me know  -- I will try to call this afternoon Beth Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
Congratulations on the birth of your daughter!  Meagan called this afternoon to tell me the news.  I will perhaps get more details when I get home tonight.  I hope that Laura and the baby are doing well.  Let us know what we can do to help.  I am sure that Jackson is a proud brother.  We will be 
I will be out of town on January 19, so Brenda Herod has agreed to make the presentation for Rick Causey.  Please replace my name with hers for all communication regarding this Analyst Orientation.  Thanks. 
Thank you all for agreeing to participate with the Analyst Orientation - Introduction  Enron's Businesses presentations.  The presentations will be conducted on the dates and times listed below, as previously scheduled.  All presentations will take place at the Doubletree Allen Center in the Dezavala room. If you have any questions or require any additional information, please feel free to contact me at 713-345-7853. Thank you again, Tracy Arthur Communication Specialist LOCATION: Doubletree Allen Center Dezavala Room THURSDAY, JANUARY 18 ETS  Dan McCarty  Thursday, January 18 9:15 a.m. - 9:45 a.m. EA  Dave Delainey  Thursday, January 18 9:45 a.m. - 10:15 a.m. ENW  Louise Kitchen  Thursday, January 18 10:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. EIM  Rodney Malcolm Thursday, January 18 11:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Trading Simiulation - Colleen Sullivan Thursday, January 18 1:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. EEL  Paul Chivers  Thursday, January 18 2:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. EGM  Jeff Shankman  Thursday, January 18 2:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. EGA  Rebecca McDonald Thursday, January 18  3:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. EES  Dan Leff  Thursday January 18 3:45 p.m. - 4:15 p.m. EBS  Stewart Seeligson Thursday, January 18 4:15 p.m. - 4:45 p.m. FRIDAY, JANUARY 19 Global Finance  Andy Fastow Friday, January 19 8:45 a.m. - 9:00 a.m. Commercial Services Sally Beck Friday, January 19 9:00 a.m. - 9:15 a.m. Global Technology Beth Perlman Friday, January 19 9:15 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. Tax   Ed Coats Friday, January 19 9:30 a.m. - 9:45 a.m. 
Great - I will add her name to the distribution list so that she will get our upcoming note on the location for this meeting.  Thanks. Enron North America Corp. 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
I just composed a somewhat lengthy e:mail about the anniversary trip, and then closed out Lotus Notes and checked discard changes.  So it is gone - but not sent!!  Can you e:mail me back your office phone number and if it is 
I know that you left a message with Patti about contacting David Eastlake.  I have sent e:mail messages to him that must have been delivered, as I did not get a message about undeliverable e:mail.  I haven't heard back from him. The phone numbers on the contact sheet are the students' numbers at school. I have left a voice mail both for Daniel Jenkins and David during the week between Christmas and New Year's, knowing that it was unlikely that they would be in Austin.  (It would be great to have their home numbers as better contact numbers during school breaks.)  I was on vacation the week before Christmas and for two days last week.  And I admit that I did not contact any students while I was on vacation!  I will try their Austin numbers this week again.  Although classes don't start until next week, they may come back to Austin early. Similar situation with my OU students.  I have conversed by e:mail since I did not have home numbers.  Do you know when classes resume at OU?  I will try my students there this week again by phone in case they are returning to school early. I had lunch with Ted Jacobs the week between Christmas and New Years - it was a thank you for finding some Orange Bowl tickets that David and I purchased. (Yes, we were at the game and saw OU win the national championship!)  I have an update from him on our list of OU candidates, according to his understanding of some of the decisions they have made.  If you have a few minutes today, give me a call and I can go over that with you. Since full-time offers were changed, did we appropriately change summer intern offers as well?  I didn't see anything in your e:mails about that. 
Sheri has told me that you made an announcement recently.  Congratulations on the baby!  I hope that you are feeling well.  I am so happy for you and your husband.  My how your lives will change!!  But how enriched they will be. Our three are so much fun.  I will also always be honest with expectant moms and say that a new baby is an incredible amount of work as well and that it sometimes takes a while to really enjoy the experience.   If you ever want some funny stories about adjusting to being a first-time mom, just let me 
I did not see an attachment to this memo from MP. Enron North America Corp. 
Sounds good to me. 
I will ask Patti to set up a meeting for us this week.  Your name has been on my list to call - a trip to the Orange Bowl last week cut my week short, so I will look forward to getting with you this week.  --Sally 
I am sure that you are enjoying your break from school.  It is always great to have finals behind you and several weeks of vacation stretching in front of you. No doubt you are spending time thinking about your next step after graduation.  I would be glad to answer any questions that you may have about your offer while you are going through that process.  Enron had a fantastic year in 2000, and we are excited about what we will accomplish in 2001.  We hope that you will be a part of that. My number at work is 713-853-5926.  Please feel free to call me any time.  If it is more convenient for you to talk during the evening or on the weekend, my home number is 281-370-8568.  Don't hesitate to call. Sally Beck 
I hope that you are enjoying your break from school, and am sure that it is even more enjoyable with that Number 1 ranking decided!  My husband (an OU grad) and I were at Orange Bowl, and it was really exciting to be there and see the team absolutely stop FSU. If you have any questions regarding your job offer from Enron while you are on vacation, please give me a call.  2000 was a banner year for us at Enron, and we were excited about what we will accomplish in 2001.  I hope that you will join us and be a part of that. My office number is 713-853-5926.  If it is more convenient for you, feel free to call me at home as well.  That number is 281-370-8568. Boomer Sooners!!! Sally Beck 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that 
I am so sorry to hear about your dad.  I did not know that he had passed away.  I know that he has been very ill.  My thoughts are with you and your family.  I know that it must hard to say goodbye to someone that has been such a part of your life for so long. We will miss you on the 11th, but certainly understand your absence.  --Sally 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
Absolutely - Clara should have been included.  I asked for a list of managers and above within EGM from Chantelle, and used that for the distribution list.  Her list omitted Clara.  All lists that I requested from EGM, ENA and EIM were to have also included those being promoted to manager as a result of our year-end PRC process.  I don't think that I got consistent info from everyone, so I am rechecking names right now and will send Clara a message about the meeting as I also clean up any others that were left off of lists. Thanks for catching this.  --Sally 
Please join me on Thursday, January 11 from 1:00 to 4:00 pm for a special information session for the Operations Management teams supporting Enron Americas, Enron Global Markets and Enron Industrial Markets.   We will focus on assessing, managing and mitigating operational risk.  Details on the location for the meeting will be sent to you early next week. I look forward to seeing everyone at this meeting on the 11th.  The things that we will discuss will be important for each and every one of you as you carry out your roles in 2001.  I hope that you will make every effort to attend.  Please let me know as soon as possible if you have a conflict that will keep you from attending the meeting. 
Please print this for me in color ASAP.  I need to review it today and get back to Louise.  Thanks. 
Enron Net Works has a 40 minute slot at the Management Conference.   I have roughly sketched out the following agenda: Net Works Businesses  -  20 minutes (Greg/Louise) The Fund - 10 minutes (Jeff McMahon) Video - 10 minutes As a base for the presentation, please could you review (of course please write complete new ones if you want to) the slides incorporated in the presentation attached below (which was the last board presentation done by Greg) and send all updates to Jason by the end of play today. Thanks Louise ps Please don't forget the slides for the budget too  which I would like tomorrow. 
I would like to invite each of you to participate in a brainstorming session with me on Friday, January 12 from 8:30 am through lunch.  The purpose of this meeting will be to surface and capture ideas around the potential commercialization of mid and back office services that we provide.  I know that many of you have ideas about services and/or products that could be marketed and some of you have been involved in arrangements where we have or are currently providing services to outside parties.  While there are efforts underway with certain modules under CommodityLogic, I want this session to be used to take a broader look at how we might market mid and back office services.  I hope that you will be able to attend. Details on location of the meeting and more exact timing will be sent to you 
I was just thinking about the anniversary thing, too.  I bought a book at Barnes & Noble -- 100 Best Family Resorts in North America.  I found the name of one place that I have seen in the past in magazines that I always thought looked good - High Hampton Inn and Country Club in North Carolina.  Another place that I have seen is something like Blackberry Farm in Tennessee.  Both meet the criteria of mountains in the Carolina/Tennessee range.  I will get info on both and we can look at it.  I worry a little bit about having such a range of ages that I want to make sure that we go someplace where there is plenty to do for all -- just sitting for some, shopping, eating, golf, etc. These two places may be on the smaller side and may or may not offer enough variety.  I thought that I would also get some info on some other places that may not have popped up on Mom and Dad's list but that might be good for the whole family.  One of those might catch their interest as well. I can understand that with prolonged holiday exposure to Mom and Dad that the thought of this trip could wear thin.  I would like the opportunity to be together with everyone -- maybe we could send them on a nice dinner just the two of them and the rest of us could have fun one night!  Even though Dad is doing so much better, you never know when you will have the chance to get everyone together on a trip like this.  Memory-maker or nightmare -- could be a toss up, but maybe worth the try.  Let's share some research and see if there is any place that we could get excited about going. ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 01/05/2001 10:41:33 AM 
Hi, Sally, Am sure you are swamped having been gone for a while...was glad to see OU won the game--figured that made it a better trip for you! Now that we know Dad will be around, shall we rev up the anniversary planning again--or should we blow it off and do some great present--maybe just send them somewhere?  Maybe it is just the increased holiday time with them but Mom and Dad are kind of getting on my nerves right now....am sure it will pass.... Cindy 
I have a standing staff meeting that I attend on Monday mornings, so I will not be available when you and James meet on the 8th.  I will look forward to getting with James after your meeting for an update. Mike Campbell <MCampbell@HDINC.COM> on 01/03/2001 02:50:49 PM 
Sally, Just wanted to give you a quick status report on where we are to date. We have had two meetings postponed with James, but we are scheduled to meet again on Monday, January 8th at 9 AM. We will review and revise the written description our approach and James wants to share that with you after the meeting. If you are available on Monday, your input would expedite the review and revision process tremendously. Thanks, Mike Campbell Holland & Davis, Inc mcampbell@hdinc.com 713-877-8130 
I passed this information along to some of my direct reports for their thoughts, and truthfully didn't hear back from anyone and didn't follow up. Two years ago, we agreed to be part of a benchmarking study that was done by AA's Houston office (interestingly enough, Wes Colwell was the AA partner who led this effort) and we had mixed results.  The study was designed to cover gas and power.  Despite our involvement in the steering committee, the study itself was very, very detailed, such that it was troublesome to complete. Jim Fallon at the time refused to submit information on the majority of the questions surrounding power, so our survey data for power was not very useful. I would agree that at this time we will pass on this request.  Thanks for passing it along, however.  I would be happy to convey this directly  to the person that has contacted you.  Just let me know his/her name and number and I will follow through on that if you would like. Hope that your holidays was enjoyable and that the new year will be a good one for you.  --Sally Vince J Kaminski 01/03/2001 03:29 PM 
Sally, I gave you some time ago a brochure on this benchmarking study request. They renewed their request for Enron's participation. What is your view on this? Do you think the benefits of knowing what's going on offset the loss due information released and time spent on the project. My recommendation is to forget it. Vince 
Dear Vince, Peter Nance and I wanted to follow-up our discussion of Enron's participation in our benchmarking study.  Have you discussed Enron's participation in the project with your colleagues? Here is a small sample set of metrics that were taken from a comprehensive list of over 700 metrics.  The study group will decide which metrics to use. With EEI's credibility and Teknecon's technical expertise, we intend to become the industry standard in benchmarking.  We would very much like to have Enron participate in the study. I would be happy to set up another meeting with you and your colleagues with Peter Nance if you think that would be helpful. Best regards, Theresa Sanders Director of Business Development Alliance of Energy Suppliers Edison Electric Institute Tel: 202-508-5183 - EEI metrics-short list.xls - ebrochure.doc - RiskBenc.ppt 
I have been out of the office at the Orange Bowl game and have just returned within the last hour.  That probably would make next week better for me than this week.  Give me a call and we will set something up.  My number is x35926.  If you don't reach me, call my temp assistant (Camella - x39106) and she will be able to set  up a meeting.  Thanks. Kim Stanley@ENRON 01/02/2001 10:05 AM 
Sally, We met in December to discuss my PRC and towards the end of our meeting, I had asked if you might have some time to discuss recommended rotations. Would you have any time this week to give me some recommendations? Thanks, Kim Bergen 35463 
We will also have both of our cell phones with us: David  713-299-1436 Sally    713-417-1591 We will hope for a little warmer weather in Fort Lauderdale!!  The game is on Wednesday evening - we will do some sightseeing during the day on Wednesday. I will be back in the office on Thursday afternoon.  Love, Sally 
I will be out of the office on Wednesday, January 3.  I am married to an OU graduate, so we are headed to the Orange Bowl to hopefully see Oklahoma hang onto their number 1 ranking.  I will be back in the office after lunch on Thursday, January 4. My assistant, Patti Thompson (x39106), has phone numbers where I can be reached.  Please contact Bob Hall at x36956 with any questions while I am 
We will also have both of our cell phones with us: David  713-299-1436 Sally    713-417-1591 We will hope for a little warmer weather in Fort Lauderdale!!  The game is on Wednesday evening - we will do some sightseeing during the day on Wednesday. I will be back in the office on Thursday afternoon.  Love, Sally 
Patti delivered to Sharron's desk this week a copy of my 2000 accomplishments.   You should find that when you return to the office.  Let me know if for some reason you do not have that copy, and I will have another delivered. Have a happy new year!  I will be at the Cotton Bowl watching Meagan's drill team perform - and also watching some of the game.  Thankfully, no emotional attachment to either team in that game!  I just hope that we don't freeze. 
I was probably hopelessly stuck in traffic when we were to talk, and did not even realize that the time had passed. Construction on my route in to work is to continue until early January, and my alternate routes have proven to busts. I will call you tomorrow and see if I can catch you between issues. Thanks for making the trip to Houston with your crew last week.  It was great to have people from so many different offices, supporting so many different commodities -- and yet with so many similar issues.  Your support for the interaction between offices is so valuable.  Thanks again for all of your efforts.  --Sally Mike Jordan 11/01/2000 08:57 AM 
Will try to call tomorrow for another slot to catch up Hope all is well 
I have completed internal feedback forms through the PEP system for Brent Price, Bob Hall and Peggy Hedstrom.  Those appeared to be the only names that you included for which you wanted my input.  Somehow, from Andrea's voice mail message last week, I had anticipated responding to more requests - I thought perhaps input in working with Wes within ENA or Melissa on SAP. Those weren't  on my list within the PEP system, so I just wanted you to know that I have responded to the three that were there.  If there was intent for me to respond to any others, they weren't accessible in the system. (Believe me, I am not asking for more - just wanted to be sure that what I saw in PEP 
I have always worked right up until my due date.  There is a lot of waiting and somehow I thought that the time passed more quickly if I was in the office in my normal routine.  Meagan was due on Wednesday, May16.  I set my last date of work for Friday, May 11.  Mom came in that weekend for Mothers' Day ( you were with her, right?) and then we did stuff the next couple of days until Meagan was born.  With Amanda, I owned the shop at the time and I was probably in the shop the morning of the day she was born.  She was a week late, so we just didn't know what to expect.  Tyler's due date was December 18, and I set my last day of work for the Friday before that date.  Of course, then he was late, but we were in the throws of remodeling, so I was out picking out carpet and paint in those final days.  A lot of this probably depends on how tired you are and whether or not you feel like you have everything at the house ready.  I still had a lot of energy at the end of my pregnancies and I had also managed to get rooms ready early, so I enjoyed working as long as I could. Definitely make a point of you and Chris going to some movies at the theater before the baby comes.  You won't be able to do that for quite a while afterwards!! ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 12/28/2000 12:51:02 PM 
Hi, Sal.  It's kind of a drag coming back to work after Christmas, huh?   I am wearing my new denim maternity shirt today!   Thanks to my sister, Sally, I have a decent maternity wardrobe to carry me through several more months! On that note, I have a question for you:  I am trying to schedule the next few months and wondered what your advice is on working up until the due date.  Would you advise working up till the date?   Or taking a couple weeks off before?    -Cara Cara White Community Development Coordinator USTA Texas Section 1-888-883-6388 cWhite@texas.usta.com 
I saw Kim's response to Stephen Douglas, but it left me short of comfort on a completion timeline or enough details around assurance on an on-going basis that this will be kept up.  I sent the note below to Kim.  I am sure that she manages well, but I think that we should encourage her to step into full responsibility and to be able to effectively communicate that within the organization.   It is likely that when Stephen reads her note, that he will call me and tell me that he still doesn't know when this task will be completed.  That was his concern yesterday, and Kim's note really doesn't address that.  If she doesn't have an estimated completion date, then she should set a target date for having all of the info compiled and state that at that date she will be able to create a realistic timeline for completing the task. Kim must own and communicate effectively the solutions, or I will be the one that gets the phone calls.  The ENA organization must develop confidence in others on our team.  Let's help Kim earn that confidence by coaching her to imagine the info that the customers needs (Stephen) and to clearly communicate information that addresses his needs.   Thanks. 
Kim, do you have an estimated completion date for the commodities where the notation is that information is being compiled?  My guess would be that the one commodity that is up-to-date (financial power) is the one with the lowest number of transactions.  That means that the lion's share of the work is still to be done.  Are we staffed to get this completed in a timely manner? As I mentioned to you before, I would not hesitate enlisting Jeff Sorenson to do much of catch up work if we are short on people to get this done promptly.  Let me know if you need his help, and I will visit with Brent Price.  I know that Brent would support Jeff's involvement to get this caught up. Who specifically will be responsible on an on-going basis to handle the RMT Confirmations?   Will we have some sort of report that we can send to Stephen each month that will indicate the completion of this task so that he is comfortable on an on-going basis that this is being kept up-to-date?  --Sally Kim S Theriot                12/27/2000 05:51 PM 
Stephen, As a follow-up to my earlier voicemail message, the status of the RMT Confirmation Project is as follows: Financial Gas:           RMT Confirmations complete through December 1999 Bob Bowen is working on compiling the data for 2000 Financial Power:      RMT Confirmations complete through November 2000 Financial Weather and Liquids:  Bob Bowen is working on compiling the data for 1999 and 2000 Financial FX:                       Laurel Adams is assessing the work to compile the data for 1999 and 2000 From this point forward, the RMT Confirmation will be prepared on a monthly basis for each commodity. As far as the Year End RMT Project, I spoke with Bob Bowen this morning as to the status.  What he told me was that he was supposed to receive a file containing the deal information of the deals involved.  This was per the meeting that he attended last week.  As of this morning he had not received anything He stated that he was expecting the file last week but never received any information.  He was going to follow-up with the appropriate individual.  I will give you an update in the morning to make sure that he has the data needed to complete the project. If you have any further questions, please call me at ext. 31771. Kim Theriot 
Kim, do you have an estimated completion date for the commodities where the notation is that information is being compiled?  My guess would be that the one commodity that is up-to-date (financial power) is the one with the lowest number of transactions.  That means that the lion's share of the work is still to be done.  Are we staffed to get this completed in a timely manner? As I mentioned to you before, I would not hesitate enlisting Jeff Sorenson to do much of catch up work if we are short on people to get this done promptly.  Let me know if you need his help, and I will visit with Brent Price.  I know that Brent would support Jeff's involvement to get his caught up. Who specifically will be responsible on an on-going basis to handle for the RMT Confirmations?   Will we have some sort of report that we can send to Stephen each month that will indicate the completion of this task so that he is comfortable on an on-going basis that this is being kept up-to-date? --Sally Kim S Theriot                12/27/2000 05:51 PM 
Stephen, As a follow-up to my earlier voicemail message, the status of the RMT Confirmation Project is as follows: Financial Gas:           RMT Confirmations complete through December 1999 Bob Bowen is working on compiling the data for 2000 Financial Power:      RMT Confirmations complete through November 2000 Financial Weather and Liquids:  Bob Bowen is working on compiling the data for 1999 and 2000 Financial FX:                       Laurel Adams is assessing the work to compile the data for 1999 and 2000 From this point forward, the RMT Confirmation will be prepared on a monthly basis for each commodity. As far as the Year End RMT Project, I spoke with Bob Bowen this morning as to the status.  What he told me was that he was supposed to receive a file containing the deal information of the deals involved.  This was per the meeting that he attended last week.  As of this morning he had not received anything He stated that he was expecting the file last week but never received any information.  He was going to follow-up with the appropriate individual.  I will give you an update in the morning to make sure that he has the data needed to complete the project. If you have any further questions, please call me at ext. 31771. Kim Theriot 
Thanks for letting me know.  I am sure that you have communicated with the Portland risk group regarding this slip up.  What assurances have you gotten from them about their diligence in the future in officializing books?  Do you think that everyone there is on board and aware of how important this is? --Sally 
I am meeting with Shona tomorrow to review the scheduling of doorstep reviews for the first quarter.  As long as the New York review isn't the week of January 15th, then I think I will still target that week for a London trip. Don't feel as if you have to clear the whole week for me  - I know that you are very busy, so I expect that we will work in time together around critical things that you need to handle.  I will try to send you a list of topics that I would like to cover by the end of the day tomorrow to give us a starting point.  You may have some suggestions on others that I should meet with while I am there.  Thanks.  --Sally Mike Jordan 12/28/2000 02:46 AM 
Hope you had a good week - mine was enjoyable despite illness in the family and a houseful of guests. I am also grateful for the opportunity to get back to work!! As to your visit I will try to clear the week - the only potential curveball is my desire to be in NY when we do the NY doorstep( timing is uncertain ). I want to hammer home the need for absolute clarity re the remote office control structure and to review the SAP implementation work - both should be in place . I will put together a list of issues/subjects that I would like to update you on over the next day or so  - we should be able to use that as a working agenda and a start point for scheduling time. If there is anything else you would like to review specifically, I will get the necessary preparation done. Cheers and Happy New Year Mike Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Hope that Christmas with your family was fun and that your days off for shopping were fruitful.  I enjoyed my week off before Christmas, but certainly felt as if I worked very hard -- shopping, wrapping, baking, volunteering, birthday party for Tyler on the 22nd (3 years old - not very good planning to throw that into the mix each Christmas season), etc.   It is nice to be back in the office this week, although I still have all of those Christmas decorations to put away sometime soon! I have tentatively planned a trip to the London office during the week of January 15.  I will fly over on Sunday, so that I would have Monday through Thursday in the office there.  I have blocked those days on my calendar and Patti has made flight reservations for me just to hold that week open.  How does that work with your schedule?  Will you be in the office that week and what is your schedule like?  I certainly wouldn't occupy all of your time during that week, but I wouldn't want to make the trip that week if  you don't have some time available.  Let me know, and then we can firm up discussions topics and agendas.  (My thought on that particular week is that it gets us past year end closing issues and that I could be back in the office during the week of January 22 and thereafter to communicate bonus information.) I am in the office all of this week.  --Sally 
Can you put a referenced as of date on the spreadsheet itself?  If you print the spreadsheet for reference after receiving the e:mail, there is no as of date that appears on the print out of the spreadsheet.  Your attachment includes the date as the name of the file, but this does not appear when you simply print our the attached spreadsheet.  Thanks.  --Sally Beck 
The items noted look like a good start to earlier detection of issues that may require reruns of valuation.  Thanks for marshalling the right resources to make this happen.  I will look forward to seeing your process timelines for current, iterim and target final state.  If my trip to London in mid-January works for your schedule, maybe this is something that we could go over then.  --Sally Mike Jordan 12/24/2000 08:15 AM 
In response to the below, there was a short planning meeting between Commercial Support and IT, specific objectives were identified which would enhance the DPR and reporting process, and improve the robustness of our processes, the following has been agreed in principle: 1. Commercial groups to input all trades and save out all curves by 6 PM GMT, pending agreement from the Office of the Chair. 2. IT to investigate/develop a report showing valuation of new trades, to be signed off by risk management before end of day. 3. Full valuation to start at approximately 7 PM GMT.  On completion, a comparison of the portfolio valuation will be made to the prior day's portfolio valuation and any material (threshold to be specified) movements to be reported to risk management ( for consideration of rerun ) 4. IT Operations to monitor valuation for software and hardware errors, to be reported to technical support in the event of a failure. The benefits of this process will be to trap problems early and allow time for completion of the rerun of the valuation systems prior to the beginning of the next trading day. Early in the new year we will produce daily process timelines for each business area/valuation system for the following: a) current state b) proposed interim state without automated trade capture/booking c) target final state including automated trade capture/booking ( note - Market Tracker for UK Power business is currently in system test - implementation timelines for other businesses not yet available ) Upon completion of these analyses we will circulate and request full commercial signoff Regards Mike Jordan, James New, Mark Pickering, John Paskin and Brian Hudson 
Just to follow up on James's note of yesterday - my apologies for being out The elimination of the requirement to 'grab' the FX and IR market environment from Houston ( and consequently use European data ) can improve our ability to kick the overnight batch processing off earlier in the evening. James and I will be working with Brian Hudson to determine the timetable for effecting this change The revised batch start time would improve the opportunity to detect any system failure and complete a rerun of the valuation process so as to deliver completed results by the time the Risk Management team arrive at their desks in the morning. System failures are the most significant problem we face in delivering timely information to Houston. Consequently the probability of meeting current reporting deadlines would be greatly improved given that we will have full IT overnight support covering for any IT failure and curve input validation processes on trade date. Indeed given the successful completion of all overnight runs we are able to deliver Officialisation of all valuation systems and most spreadsheets ( David Hardy is in final testing of the Eastern spreadsheet feed ) by the 10 AM deadline ( Houston 4 AM ) Flash p&l by the 1PM deadline ( Houston 7AM ) Completion of the final DPR to be submitted to Houston by the 5 PM deadline ( Houston 11AM ) James and I are currently finalising a document reviewing all possible changes to business processes that could improve these times. This is in addition to working with Commercial and IT to assess the possibility of delivering significantly faster revaluation systems that could assist in delivering a trade date control process. I can confirm that there is significant work to do in this area, however, we are dedicated to meeting the objectives of improved/more real time control. Please feel free to call if the above requires any additional commentary. Regards Mike 
Rick, Thanks you for your note below. We are today implementing a flash P&L process. We aim to report daily numbers at 7am Houston time and will start today with the P&L. We will build on this and hope to have draft positions and VAR for most books within a week or so. There will be a reconciliation of flash to final numbers which will be included in our return to Houston. I will put together a note on the London DPR production process which goes into the process we currently have, the process we actually need to have, and the obstacles that are in the way. I would expect this to be finalised tomorrow. Obtaining the USD interest rate curve on a more timely basis is just one of our problems but it is unfortunately by no means our only or most serious problem. James 
To continue to keep you in the loop - looks like Mike is moving in the right direction on this --Sally 
In response to the below, there was a short planning meeting between Commercial Support and IT, specific objectives were identified which would enhance the DPR and reporting process, and improve the robustness of our processes, the following has been agreed in principle: 1. Commercial groups to input all trades and save out all curves by 6 PM GMT, pending agreement from the Office of the Chair. 2. IT to investigate/develop a report showing valuation of new trades, to be signed off by risk management before end of day. 3. Full valuation to start at approximately 7 PM GMT.  On completion, a comparison of the portfolio valuation will be made to the prior day's portfolio valuation and any material (threshold to be specified) movements to be reported to risk management ( for consideration of rerun ) 4. IT Operations to monitor valuation for software and hardware errors, to be reported to technical support in the event of a failure. The benefits of this process will be to trap problems early and allow time for completion of the rerun of the valuation systems prior to the beginning of the next trading day. Early in the new year we will produce daily process timelines for each business area/valuation system for the following: a) current state b) proposed interim state without automated trade capture/booking c) target final state including automated trade capture/booking ( note - Market Tracker for UK Power business is currently in system test - implementation timelines for other businesses not yet available ) Upon completion of these analyses we will circulate and request full commercial signoff Regards Mike Jordan, James New, Mark Pickering, John Paskin and Brian Hudson 
Just to follow up on James's note of yesterday - my apologies for being out The elimination of the requirement to 'grab' the FX and IR market environment from Houston ( and consequently use European data ) can improve our ability to kick the overnight batch processing off earlier in the evening. James and I will be working with Brian Hudson to determine the timetable for effecting this change The revised batch start time would improve the opportunity to detect any system failure and complete a rerun of the valuation process so as to deliver completed results by the time the Risk Management team arrive at their desks in the morning. System failures are the most significant problem we face in delivering timely information to Houston. Consequently the probability of meeting current reporting deadlines would be greatly improved given that we will have full IT overnight support covering for any IT failure and curve input validation processes on trade date. Indeed given the successful completion of all overnight runs we are able to deliver Officialisation of all valuation systems and most spreadsheets ( David Hardy is in final testing of the Eastern spreadsheet feed ) by the 10 AM deadline ( Houston 4 AM ) Flash p&l by the 1PM deadline ( Houston 7AM ) Completion of the final DPR to be submitted to Houston by the 5 PM deadline ( Houston 11AM ) James and I are currently finalising a document reviewing all possible changes to business processes that could improve these times. This is in addition to working with Commercial and IT to assess the possibility of delivering significantly faster revaluation systems that could assist in delivering a trade date control process. I can confirm that there is significant work to do in this area, however, we are dedicated to meeting the objectives of improved/more real time control. Please feel free to call if the above requires any additional commentary. Regards Mike 
Rick, Thanks you for your note below. We are today implementing a flash P&L process. We aim to report daily numbers at 7am Houston time and will start today with the P&L. We will build on this and hope to have draft positions and VAR for most books within a week or so. There will be a reconciliation of flash to final numbers which will be included in our return to Houston. I will put together a note on the London DPR production process which goes into the process we currently have, the process we actually need to have, and the obstacles that are in the way. I would expect this to be finalised tomorrow. Obtaining the USD interest rate curve on a more timely basis is just one of our problems but it is unfortunately by no means our only or most serious problem. James 
Please use my office for the interviews on November 4th.  My office is EB3389.  If you need additional offices, you could contact several of my direct reports who have offices:  Brent Price, Brenda Herod, Bob Hall, Mary Solmonson and James Scribner.  --Sally 
Hope that Christmas with your family was fun and that your days off for shopping were fruitful.  I enjoyed my week off before Christmas, but certainly felt as if I worked very hard -- shopping, wrapping, baking, volunteering, birthday party for Tyler on the 22nd (3 years old - not very good planning to throw that into the mix each Christmas season), etc.   It is nice to be back in the office this week, although I still have all of those Christmas decorations to put away sometime soon! I have tentatively planned a trip to the London office during the week of January 15.  I will fly over on Sunday, so that I would have Monday through Thursday in the office there.  I have blocked those days on my calendar and Patti has made flight reservations for me just to hold that week open.  How does that work with your schedule?  Will you be in the office that week and what is your schedule like?  I certainly wouldn't occupy all of your time during that week, but I wouldn't want to make the trip that week if  you don't have some time available.  Let me know, and then we can firm up discussions topics and agendas.  (My thought on that particular week is that it gets us past year end closing issues and that I could be back in the office during the week of January 22 and thereafter to communicate bonus information.) 
You should see this reply from Mike -- it is more positive than the response from James New.  Sounds as if they have not yet finished their document on required changes to processes, systems, commercial practices, etc. to move to a same day calculation of their books.  Mike and I have talked about this as a longer term goal for the London office and I knew that he was working with James and others to come up with a plan and a timeline.  I expect to review that with Mike when he has it in a draft form that warrants that discussion. That is why you haven't yet seen the document.  --Sally 
Just to follow up on James's note of yesterday - my apologies for being out The elimination of the requirement to 'grab' the FX and IR market environment from Houston ( and consequently use European data ) can improve our ability to kick the overnight batch processing off earlier in the evening. James and I will be working with Brian Hudson to determine the timetable for effecting this change The revised batch start time would improve the opportunity to detect any system failure and complete a rerun of the valuation process so as to deliver completed results by the time the Risk Management team arrive at their desks in the morning. System failures are the most significant problem we face in delivering timely information to Houston. Consequently the probability of meeting current reporting deadlines would be greatly improved given that we will have full IT overnight support covering for any IT failure and curve input validation processes on trade date. Indeed given the successful completion of all overnight runs we are able to deliver Officialisation of all valuation systems and most spreadsheets ( David Hardy is in final testing of the Eastern spreadsheet feed ) by the 10 AM deadline ( Houston 4 AM ) Flash p&l by the 1PM deadline ( Houston 7AM ) Completion of the final DPR to be submitted to Houston by the 5 PM deadline ( Houston 11AM ) James and I are currently finalising a document reviewing all possible changes to business processes that could improve these times. This is in addition to working with Commercial and IT to assess the possibility of delivering significantly faster revaluation systems that could assist in delivering a trade date control process. I can confirm that there is significant work to do in this area, however, we are dedicated to meeting the objectives of improved/more real time control. Please feel free to call if the above requires any additional commentary. Regards Mike 
Rick, Thanks you for your note below. We are today implementing a flash P&L process. We aim to report daily numbers at 7am Houston time and will start today with the P&L. We will build on this and hope to have draft positions and VAR for most books within a week or so. There will be a reconciliation of flash to final numbers which will be included in our return to Houston. I will put together a note on the London DPR production process which goes into the process we currently have, the process we actually need to have, and the obstacles that are in the way. I would expect this to be finalised tomorrow. Obtaining the USD interest rate curve on a more timely basis is just one of our problems but it is unfortunately by no means our only or most serious problem. James 
I should have included you on this contact list.  I will remember to do so next time.  I will be in the office all of this week, so please call me directly on any information needs you or team may have this week. 
Please see attached file for key contacts during weeks of December 18, December 25, & January 1. 
Good memo on contacts.  Thanks for copying me.  Have a wonderful vacation. I know that you will be glad to have Jordan back with you.  --Sally 
Unfortunately, I will miss your farewell at Slick Willie's on January 3rd.  I am sorry that I won't be able to drink a beer with you as a send off, but perhaps we can have one in London later in January as your welcome to London.  I will be in Miami on January 3rd, hopefully celebrating an Oklahoma win in the Orange Bowl earlier that day.  David found us tickets to the game.  Not great seats, but they are in the stadium.  Hey, it's not UT, but it should still be fun to go. I will miss you and your wit and constructive cynisism in Houston.  But I know that I can count on you to be just as vocal from London!  I plan to be there at least quarterly in 2001, and will definitely welcome your first hand observations on operational areas that may need attention.  Hopefully between e:mail and voice mail we can definitely keep in touch. Tell Ann that I hope that this will be a great adventure for her and the whole family.  I think that it is a wonderful time in your children's lives 
Thanks for including me in the invitation to Slick Willie's.  Unfortunately, I will not be able to attend.  I will be at the Orange Bowl in Miami and will 
We are making some progress with the timeliness of London information.  More to come... 
I appreciate the flash P&L that you are now providing.  That should help everyone get an early morning picture of what is going on in London.  Have you had an opportunity to address the need for European VaR numbers at the same time in the morning? James New 12/18/2000 01:07 AM 
We in London shall be producing a flash P&L from today Monday the 18th of December. This will be sent to Shona's group at 1pm London time which Ibelieve is in good time for the P&L consolidation group. Any queries please let me know. James 
The following schedule has been distributed as noted regarding publishing the DPR over the next two weeks.  I know that books run in Calgary, Houston, and Portland will be calculated and officialized on Friday, December 22nd for trading that day.  The current plan is not to publish the DPR for December 22nd on Tuesday, December 26th, but to wait until the first Enron official business day to do so (i.e. Wednesday, December 27th).  That will work as long as trading results for Friday, December 22nd are not dramatic. Please leave a voice mail message after calcing the books on Friday, December 22nd for Chris Abel (x33102) to give him trading results by commodity for December 22nd.  If there are dramatic results, Chris may produce a preliminary and rough DPR on Tuesday, December 26th with the information that you provide.  For locations that will not calc and officialize books on Friday, December 22nd, you will still need to contact Chris to give him your best estimate of trading results. Thanks for your continuing help in providing timely and accurate information for the worldwide trading organization.  I hope that all of you enjoy your holidays. 
Please note the following schedule for risk book reporting during the holiday period: Trade Date Enron Status NYMEX  Equity Market Consolidated Risk Reporting Fri, 12/22 Open Early Close Open DPR published for 12/21 results (a) Mon, 12/25 Holiday (b) Closed Closed DPR not published Tues, 12/26 Holiday (b) Open Open DPR not published (c) Wed, 12/27 Open Open Open DPR published separately for 12/22 & 12/26 results Thurs, 12/28 Open  Open Open DPR published for 12/27 results Fri, 12/29 Open Early Close Open DPR published for 12/28 results (a) Mon, 1/1 Holiday (b) Closed Closed DPR not published Tues, 1/2 Open Open Open DPR published for 12/29.  Normal month end schedule applies. (d) (a) Trader P&L and Position reports will be produced for traded products at close of business (b) US, Canadian & London holiday (c) Logistics and risk personnel will be in the office on this holiday to support trading activity (d) Monthly close procedures require that changes or adjustments to risk books for month-end be submitted by 5:00 pm Houston time on the first business day following the end of the month.  The DPR published on 1/2 for 12/29 results will be preliminary.  The final DPR for 12/29 should be published on 1/3, assuming that all month-end adjustments have been received on 1/2. 
*****************    PLEASE SAVE THIS MESSAGE    ***************** Hi Sally, Welcome to the EntryPoint family! Congratulations on joining the millions of web users who have discovered the convenience of the EntryPoint Toolbar.  Below are your user name and password for EntryPoint. Please save or print out this message for future reference. Your EntryPoint User Name: sbeck5 Your EntryPoint Password:  balc33balc You've made a great choice! EntryPoint is filled with features to help save you time and frustration.  To get the most out of EntryPoint, be sure to personalize it by clicking on the ""EntryPoint"" logo on the toolbar. By personalizing your content and setting alerts, you will always know about late-breaking news that is important to you such as: *  your stock hits $100 *  your favorite basketball player gets traded *  your favorite band releases a new recording FIND OUT MORE! EntryPoint was designed to be easy to use and personalize, but if you have any questions simply click on the ""EntryPoint"" logo on the toolbar to reach Customer Support or click on one of the following links. For access to online HELP and Frequently Asked Questions, click here: http://www.entrypoint.com/help To reach customer support, click here: http://www.entrypoint.com/cgi-bin/index.cgi?page=help:help_customerservice TELL A FRIEND! To tell a friend about EntryPoint's great services, just click on the ""EntryPoint"" logo on the toolbar or simply click on the following link. http://www.entrypoint.com/promo/welcometaf.htm We'll send them an email highlighting EntryPoint's features and benefits. We'll also provide a link for them to download the toolbar. LET US KNOW WHAT YOU THINK! After you've become familiar with your new toolbar, we'd like to hear your feedback on what you like and what we can improve on. Within the next week or two, please take a few minutes to fill out the following survey. Your input will help us make it a more valuable tool for you and is very much appreciated. http://www.entrypoint.com/survey/ Thank you for choosing EntryPoint.  We're glad to have you as a member! Best Regards, The EntryPoint Team 
Please note the following schedule for risk book reporting during the holiday period: Trade Date Enron Status NYMEX  Equity Market Consolidated Risk Reporting Fri, 12/22 Open Early Close Open DPR published for 12/21 results (a) Mon, 12/25 Holiday (b) Closed Closed DPR not published Tues, 12/26 Holiday (b) Open Open DPR not published (c) Wed, 12/27 Open Open Open DPR published separately for 12/22 & 12/26 results Thurs, 12/28 Open  Open Open DPR published for 12/27 results Fri, 12/29 Open Early Close Open DPR published for 12/28 results (a) Mon, 1/1 Holiday (b) Closed Closed DPR not published Tues, 1/2 Open Open Open DPR published for 12/29.  Normal month end schedule applies. (d) (a) Trader P&L and Position reports will be produced for traded products at close of business (b) US, Canadian & London holiday (c) Logistics and risk personnel will be in the office on this holiday to support trading activity (d) Monthly close procedures require that changes or adjustments to risk books for month-end be submitted by 5:00 pm Houston time on the first business day following the end of the month.  The DPR published on 1/2 for 12/29 results will be preliminary.  The final DPR for 12/29 should be published on 1/3, assuming that all month-end adjustments have been received on 1/2. 
Got your most recent message.  Your observation is correct that the Enron Americas staff member on Shawn's team has not been involved to date with Doorstep reviews or planning.  Although Shawn made an offer to Michelle some time ago, there was a long lead time for her arrival.  She did not start with the company until after Thanksgiving.  Since she started a couple of weeks ago, Wes and I have asked her to look into several specific findings from the most AA internal audit projects and to work with our staffs to provide some solutions to issues that were raised.  There simply has not been the time to date to expose her to Doorstep. After Shawn and I meet (see below), I will briefly summarize for you the roles that all groups will play in the Doorstep Review process.  Before we move forward I want to be sure that all parties agree on the purpose, methodology, participants and execution plan for this on-going project. 
I understand from Shona that you and she have discussed the plans for Doorstep Reviews in 2001.  I am asking via this note for my assistant to set up a meeting for the two of us to spend some time reviewing the timeline, methodology, and the involvement of RAC, Andersen, operations and your team. I will be on vacation the week of December 18.  I will be working the week between Christmas and New Year's, so if you are in the office we can plan on getting together that week. 
I understand from Shona that you and she have discussed our plans for Doorstep Reviews in 2001.  I am asking via this note for my assistant to set up a meeting for the two of us to spend some time reviewing the timeline, methodology, Andersen's involvement and the involvement of your team.  I will be on vacation the week of December 18.  I will be working the week between Christmas and New Year's, so if you are in the office we can plan on getting 
I will be out of the office on vacation during the week of December 18. Please refer to the contact names below as needed during that week.  I can be reached at my home number (281-370-8568) if necessary. DPR     Chris Abel   x33102 MPR     David Maxwell  x36983 Gas Operations   Bob Hall   x36956 Leslie Reeves  x37962 Jeff Gossett   x37306 Power Operations  Stacey White  x31870 Leslie Reeves  x37962 Canadian Operations  Peggy Hedstrom  403-974-6753 I will be back in the office on Wednesday, December 27 through Friday, December 29.  I will also be in for part of the day on Tuesday, December 26. Although that is an Enron holiday, there will be appropriate logistics personnel and book administrators in the office to support trading activities 
Patti will send you on Monday a draft of a memo regarding publishing the DPR during the holidays.  Please review it and make sure that the commitments we are making can be met by London.  Let me know if anything needs to be changed or if there is further clarification needed in the notes, keeping in mind that with the audience on the memo that I want it to be short and easy.  Your comments/suggestions are welcomed and needed before I send this out later 
Great to hear from you.  I was thinking about you today.  I will look forward to your starting on the 29th.  Certainly if anything comes up with the move or the family, feel free to shift that date as needed.  I will be glad to have you as part of the team and think that we will have fun working together. I am on vacation next week (lots of shopping, wrapping, baking planned, plus Tyler's birthday party), and I am really looking forward to that.  I do feel as if I have been the PRC queen recently.  Wes' PRC last Thursday, mine on Friday, Enron Wholesale Services (minus Europe) with Mark Frevert on Monday of this week and a full day (7:30 am to 8:00 pm on Wednesday for the Associates PRC.  I do need a break! I will be working the week after Christmas.  Although we do have a holiday on December 26th, we will trading that day.  Lots of my logistics and risk guys will be in, so I will probably make an appearance that day.  I will be in for full days on the 27th -29th.  Very few commitments on the calendar for those days, so just let me know when you would like to get together. Hope that you, Frank and Lauren have a wonderful Christmas holiday.  --Sally Beth Apollo 12/15/2000 03:37 AM 
Hi there  -- As I recall you are off next week, so wanted to touch base.  I am sure you will be ready  -- after PRC's and the craziness that has been going on over there. Just wanted to confirm my availability   and maybe see if we should get together while I am in Houston  (will be there between Christmas and New Year's) and could come in for a few hours or meet you for lunch. I think you said that you will be in London in early January - is that still happening?  Alternatively we could get together then. Also -- I am planning to be ready to start work with you on Jan 29th (hopefully I can get Lauren into her school the week before - so she can get used to it).   We are leaving London on the 20th (AA signs of on our year end earnings release on Friday the 19th)  and then I will have a week to sort things out at home before starting! I am really looking forward to learning something new, and working with you. Thanks for the opportunity. If we don't speak before the holidays, I hope your family has a wonderful Christmas. Beth I can be reached in Houston over the holidays at my in-laws  (713) 520 0766 
The Analyst/Associates Program plans to send the PRC reps a final listing of the PRC results by Tuesday, December 19th.  They asked that we not communicate results until after that date.  I did not write down all results from the meeting, so I would be glad to let you know, but would prefer to wait until I have written documentation of final results in front of me before doing so.  Both Remi and Don Black were able to add to my discussion around Erwin, so he was well respresented in the process.  I am scheduled to be out on vacation next week, but I will check e:mail messages from home and will get back with you via e:mail next week to let you know final results. Hope that you enjoy the holidays.  I will be back at work right after Christmas.  -Sally 
I'm curious to know how did he do on Wednesday.  Any news? Thanks. 
FYI - Despite the fact that this an OU student, I thought that you would find this note interesting.  Since we compete with Big 5 for talent at several schools, we should be aware of the make up of some of their job offers that lure students to join them.    Paying for a masters degree at UVA ahead of time is certainly an interesting piece of this job offer.  See note from Lexi below. 
I didn't get back from the meeting with Causey and Buy until just before 6:00 today - not that the meeting was long - Rick Causey was just running late so we cooled our heels outside his office for quite a while before getting started.  I decided that midnight would be outside the bounds of office dedication, so I did not call!  Enjoy your time off tomorrow and on Monday. My plans are to take off next week, and to be back in the office to work the week between Christmas and New Years.  I wouldn't recommend taking your time during your day off to call, but if you finish your Christmas shopping and do want to call, my calendar is free all afternoon after lunch tomorrow.  Wish I 
Thanks for the heads up.  I will be here all day tomorrow.  --Sally Laurel Adams 12/14/2000 02:15 PM 
It is possible we will have a few late manual wires tomorrow.  SAP is shutting down early for a production build, and if we do not have all GBP or EUR payments confirmed by 4pm, we will have to create manual wires to make timely payments.  Thanks for your help. 
I went by the store on my way home and saw a Pillsbury mix with red and green confetti in it - decided that cupcakes would be simpler than cookies.  Since it was after 10:00 when I got started on this project, it turned out be a good decision.  I would like your recipe so that when we are doing baking for the family next week that I can use it. ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 12/14/2000 01:01:21 PM 
Did you get your cookies made? Cindy 
I left Mike a message telling him that I was forwarding this to you and that someone on your team would verify this information and get  back to him.  His note asks for info back by Friday the 17th - Friday is the 15th and I assume that is the deadline that he intends.  Thanks.  --Sally 
We need to prepare the Proof of Claim in the Perry Gas Companies, Inc. bankruptcy.     The debtor's  Schedule F filed  29-Sep-2000, with balances as of the bankruptcy filing date of 28-Aug-2000,  indicated the amount of our claims: Creditor Amount Clinton Energy Management Services               $   702,150.00 Enron Energy Services                                            $5,387,076.11 Enron North America $1,948,233.60 I need by the close of business Friday, December 17th: 1. Please have the amounts verified by your respective area (ENA/EES). The accuracy of these figures is quite important. 2. Copies of all the legal documentation for your transaction(s).  We will need to file this with the court as an attachment Please call if you have any questions. Michael Tribolet x33820 EB2855. 
Cathy, I plan to be on vacation next week and therefore will not be at the December 18th staff meeting. 
Thanks for looking into this and getting back to me.  Let me know the final resolution on this one. Jeffrey C Gossett 12/13/2000 08:29 AM 
We have figured out why the credit group is getting so many ""New Counterparty"" names in gas.  The spreadsheets that they are getting that information from are for position purposes only on pipe-optons.  The value is captured in TAGG and therefore if both had the correct counterparty it would be doublecounting credit risk.  The spreadsheet download has a specific download that it has to follow which includes counterparty name  (which in this case had to be put in as new counterparty.)  I am working with Debbie to figure out how we can download those positions without showing a counterparty at all from the spreadsheet.  It will be done as quickly as possible. Thanks 
I meant to blind copy you on this.  Here it is... 
Thanks for taking the time to send your note.  I am glad that the party was such a success and that Heather was able to contribute to that.  Heather is absolutely a wonderful asset to our team and to the company.  Thanks for your acknowledgement of that.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
The week of November 13 is the week of the Enron Management Conference in San Antonio.  It begins on Wednesday evening, so most people will be travelling on Wednesday afternoon.  I will be in the office on Monday and Tuesday that week, so those days work well for me for your visit.   I just wanted you to know about the conference in case that has an impact on other meetings that you might want to have in Houston that week.  Let me know.  I will look forward to seeing you and introducing you to others on the team. We are looking forward to seeing Mo next week here in Houston. Have a great weekend.  --Sally Beth Apollo 10/24/2000 09:27 AM 
Hi there --- Had lunch with Mo today  -- so as you can imagine she was very interested in my new role, working with you.  Fernley has decided that it is too hard to write down all of the organizational changes and how it affects all of the people who reported in to Phillip and I, so he has just verbally announced the changes.  But, at any rate, the word is getting out. I hadn't seen Mo in months, so it was good to catch up.  I think she is headed to Houston this week (so is Frank) so I am sure you will be hearing from her. I have tentatively blocked out the week beginning Monday, Nov. 13th to come over to Houston, and would like to spend some of that time with you and your team, meeting people, and maybe just following you around for the day, as you suggested. Does that week work for you?  I think the Management conference is later in the month, so people will generally be around. Please let me know, and I will make sure it happens.  I will also need to spend some time with Melissa Becker and her team working on Post ASE Reporting solutions, but will plan to spend a significant amount of time with the North America group. What do you think?  I am ready to get moving on some new things!!!! Beth 
I will interviewing on campus for the Analyst Program on Monday and Tuesday, October 30 and 31.  My assistant, Patti Thompson (x39106), will have telephone numbers where I can be reached.  I will have my cell phone with me (713-417-1591) and I will check messages as we have breaks in the interview schedule during the day.   I will be back in the office on Wednesday, November 1. In my absence, please contact the following persons regarding trading operations issues: Gas Operations  Jeff Gossett  x37306 Bob Hall  x36956 Leslie Reeves x37962 Power Operations Stacey White x31870 Leslie Reeves x37962 DPR    Shona Wilson x39123 
Yes, you are nuts!  I can't believe that you already have so many gingerbread houses made.  The cookie exchange was fun - fudge is definitely the easy route on that one. I will get the recipe from home tonight and will e:mail it to you tomorrow. -Sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 12/11/2000 11:19:35 AM 
Hey--how was your weekend--fudge delivered? Got my bake sale item done--an 18 layer cookie tower.  Have 9 houses baked with 3 to go. Now to show that I really have gone nuts--I thought I would cook breakfast for the 2nd grade at school on Friday morning....can I have your breakfast pizza recipe?  We all thought it was great and I think the kids will think it is fun.... Thanks! Cindy 
I think that four weeks is a good time frame for this - we can re-evaluate at the end of that period as to whether or not this is still needed.  As far as the right time, you should talk with Jeff Gossett (gas) and Scott Earnest (global products).  They can give you the best estimate on timing.  I am copying them on this memo. When your schedule is set, I assume that you will provide Jeff and Scott with a copy of the schedule (dates, names and contact numbers).  Please send me a copy as well.  This IT presence on the floor during critical calculation times will be very much appreciated.  I understand that not only will this provide immediate contact when and if system issues arise, but that your team will be working with the book administrators on improving spreadsheet macros. 
Thanks for your note.  I was great to meet you - I am glad that you could take the time out of the office to make the trip to Houston.  I will look forward to seeing you when I am next in London.  --Sally Mike Wellings 10/26/2000 02:53 AM 
I would just like to thank you both  for an extremely informative and constructive event. I learnt an lot from this and look forward to taking these ideas forward. Mike 
Thanks for the call.  Brenda Herod is the operations controller for EIM. (Brenda and Brent in their roles over EIM and EGM, respectively, are both direct reports of mine.)  Brenda is out of the country through the end of this week on vacation, touring Europe with her mom.  If there is a need to address this issue this week, let me know and I can start down that road until Brenda returns.  Let me know. I did hear an unsubstantiated rumor this week that Clickpaper.com is set to go live in London within 5 days.  I am trying to find out if that is true. If it is, it would be a repeat of a commercial decision in Houston to do so this past July without letting anyone in the mid and back office know.  We had to scramble to set up an infrastructure to support that in a big hurry. Not ideal.  I hope that history has not repeated itself.  Let me know if you 
You got the right one -- thanks for telling me, but I already knew that without your having to tell me.  I cherish having sisters and love you very much too.  (Okay, maybe one of you is more cherished than the other, but don't tell Cara I said that!) ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 10/24/2000 03:59:49 PM 
If I haven't told you recently I am very glad you are my sister.  I love you. Cindy (hoping this one goes to the right Sally!) 
Cary, thanks for the response.  We will keep your name on the list and will contact you for any spring events.  --Sally 
We can't wait to see the three of you.  Tammy and Tyler will be at home on Wednesday afternoon and will be expecting you whenever they see you.  Meagan has drill team practice after school until 4:45 and she drives herself home and Amanda rides the bus home after school, arriving about 4:30. Mo will be in Houston while you are here.  If it still works with your plans, I thought that I would take the day off on Friday, November 3 so that you, Paul, David and I could do something fun with Rebecca and Tyler.  The football game is that evening at 7:00.  I had also thought about arranging a lunch on Thursday (downtown - Irma's?) either for us with Mo, or even to expand that to include a bunch of ex-First City folks.  Mark Wilson, James Scribner, Chuch Randall and Charles Delacey all work here for Enron.  We could call MG Shetty, and with you and Mo and me, it would be quite a reunion.  Let me know if you would like to do either one of these two things and I will arrange whatever sounds good to you. Our phone numbers are: Home  281-370-8568 Sally's Office   713-853-5926 David's Cell:  713-299-1436 Sally's Cell:    713-417-1591 ""RODEGHIERO,STEPHANIE (HP-Boise,ex1)"" <stephanie_rodeghiero@hp.com> on 10/23/2000 10:20:14 AM 
Hi Sally, This is a note to confirm that we are still on our way.  We'll be at Lora and Doug Bonser's house in Austin from Oct 27 to Nov 1.  Their number in Austin is 512-892-0418.  We are planning on leaving early Wednesday morning and driving via Brenham.  Will Tammy and Tyler be home in the afternoon?  If not, we could hang out with my friends from Montana until people will be at your house -- Pam and Rob Stephens -- bought a house about 1 mile from you. (They lived in Texas last time we were there, moved back to Montana, and I just found out that they are back in Texas for the long term -- small world.) I have directions that I got from the web to your house -- once I get in the general area, I can find it. See you soon! Stephanie 
Thanks for the note.  I remembered that you will be coming in from London. Hope the trip is uneventful.  Sunday evening will not be lengthy, as I am sure that you will be tired. 
I hope that you have fun (are marathon and fun mutally exclusive terms?!). We will see you on Monday.  --Sally 
Sally, Just a reminder, I will not be able to attend the Sunday night dinner as I will be out of town (returning from DC marathon, whew!). Looking forward to attending the offsite.  Thanks. Kristin 
A high level agenda is attached.  The more detailed agenda will be distributed at dinner on Sunday night. Location: The Warwick Hotel 5701 Main Street Houston, Texas  77005 Contact #: Phone:  713-526-1991 Fax:   713-526-0359 (specify Versailles Room) Weekend Contacts: Patti Thompson Home phone:  713-669-1984 Cell phone:  713-444-3115 Sally Beck Home Phone:  281-370-8568 Cell Phone:  713-417-1591 Please note:  Sally's expectation is that Houston attendees who are not staying at the Warwick will be present for all aspects of the forum.  This begins with the dinner on Sunday evening (5:30 PM) and ends mid-afternoon Tuesday.  If an emergency arises and you will not be attending any part of it, please contact Sally or Patti at above listed numbers. Thanks, Patti x39106 
I would like to formulate the breakout groups prior to the forum.  I would like your input on likely persons to put together in these breakout 
I believe that all of you have met Frank (whose last name I can't remember), the HR generalist who is currently working with Hector to serve the HR needs for Energy Operations in ENA.   Frank is working on a contract basis at this time, and Sheila Walton is seeking feedback on his performance to date in order to evaluate the duration of his work as a contractor and the feasibility of bringing him in as an employee.  I have given Sheila my feedback, but suggested to her that you may have had more contact with Frank than I have had.  Please take the time to send Sheila an e:mail message or voice mail to let her know what your experiences have been in working with Frank.  Your input will be very valuable to Sheila.   Thanks for taking the 
Very belated reply - I am cleaning up old e:mails today, and came across this one that I had not answered.  Commercial does not sign confirmations at this point.  Too many to make that practical these days.  When I started the confirm desk in 1994, traders were signing confirms at that time. Once they knew that they had someone who would take responsibility to make sure they were right, they were very glad to pass that responsibility to me.  In the early days of power, the traders once again were signing confirms.  Obviously interested in the details of every deal that was done.  But as the business grew, that too changed.  --Sally Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 11/17/2000 07:53 PM 
Sally/Brent Quick question - your confirms - are they signed by both Commercial & Comm Supp (as Attorney at Fact) - or by just one or the other? I want to make sure EBS is consistent. Currently - one of either Jim F or Paul R are signing all of them - rightly so at the moement - not many deals and they want to see all. Thoughts? B. 
FYI - handled 
I will be out of the office for most of the day on Friday.  My dad is experiecing serious health problems, and he will be in Houston on Friday for an appointment with a specialist that I have arranged.  I will be going to the doctor's appointment with my dad.  Depending upon waiting room time, I may not be in the office for the 1:30 meeting in EB3305 to discuss the findings from the recent internal audit projects.  I have asked Shona Wilson to attend in my place.  Please continue with the meeting, as I know that this is a difficult meeting to schedule.  I will get an update from Shona when I get back to the office. 
I will be out of the office for most of the day on Friday.  My dad is experiecing serious health problems, and he will be in Houston on Friday for an appointment with a specialist that I have arranged.  I will be going to the doctor's appointment with my dad.  Depending upon waiting room time, I may not be in the office for the 1:30 meeting in EB3305 to discuss the findings from the recent internal audit projects.  I have asked Shona Wilson to attend in my place.  Please continue with the meeting, as I know that this is a difficult meeting to schedule.  I will get an update from Shona when I 
Attached - still not quite final - waiting for confirmation from Tom Gros and Philippe Bibi.   Can we add an Enron logo to the top of the first page? Thanks. I also sent this version to Mike Jordan, Fernley Dyson and Shona for their input. 
Thanks.  I have shared these with Jeff Gossett (gas risk lead) and Scott Earnest (products risk lead).  I will be curious to hear about the plan that your DBA's have devised today.  Thanks for you help and attention to these 
See names below for your IT contacts tonight - one on 32 and one on 31.  Do you know these folks?  They should be visibly on your floors.  Let me know if that doesn't happen.  --Sally 
My details to Jeff and Sherri 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum that I am hosting next week.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services. Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
My details to Bill Bradford... 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
My details to Ted ... 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business-maybe!). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
My details to Rick and Sharron... 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  I know that we are catching you before a tee time on Monday, so I especially appreciate your joining us to kick off the event that morning. Dress for the forum is casual, so feel free to do the same.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
FYI - my details to Philippe 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  Dress for the forum is casual, so feel free to do the same.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting. All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You and I talked about Monday or Tuesday afternoon, October 23 or 24.  I have tentatively put you on the agenda over lunch on Tuesday as detailed below. I hope that you can join us for lunch and address the group either before or after you eat - your choice on that.  I will call Peggy to check on your schedule, and if this does not work we can rearrange. 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  Dress for the forum is casual, so feel free to do the same.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting. All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You and I talked about Monday or Tuesday afternoon, October 23 or 24.  I have tentatively put you on the agenda over lunch on Tuesday as detailed below. I hope that you can join us for lunch and address the group either before or after you eat - your choice on that.  I will call Peggy to check on your schedule, and if this does not work we can rearrange. 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  I know that we are catching you before a tee time on Monday, so I especially appreciate your joining us to kick off the event that morning. Dress for the forum is casual, so feel free to do the same.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
Thanks for the heads up. 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business-maybe!). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services.  Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
Thanks in advance for agreeing to speak at the Global Operations Controller Forum that I am hosting next week.  There will be approximately 30 Enron business controllers present at the meeting.  All have responsibility for mid and back office operations for the following Enron entities:  Enron North America, Enron Europe, Enron South America, Enron Global Markets, Enron Industrial Markets, Enron Broadband Services and Enron Energy Services. Attendees will be here from Houston, Calgary, Tokyo, Sydney, London and New York (metals business). Attached for your reference is the agenda. There may be some slight changes before the forum begins, but this will give you a good idea of the topics to be covered and the other speakers who will address the group. You are scheduled to address the group as follows: 
As promised, although a little later than expected, a draft agenda is attached at the end of my memo to Mike.  The memo will walk you through the agenda.  Please let me know if you have any comments or suggestions.  Again, I an sorry that you will not be able to join us, but I am pleased that so many others from the London office will be in attendance.  --Sally 
Attached is a draft agenda for your review and comments.  As speakers were confirmed, the placement of certain items on the agenda were dictated by the speakers' schedules and then logical grouping of topics around those speakers.  Sunday evening will not be heavy - simple welcome and intros, drink and dinner - I know that many will be tired from traveling.  We have arranged for a private showing of the movie Rogue Trader (complete with comfy chairs and popcorn) which I thought could be fun for the group to see as a means of setting the stage for our discussions on Monday and Tuesday.  This can be optional, as I know that jet lag my get the best of some. The morning on Monday will set the stage:  why we have gathered, endorsement of our efforts (Causey).  Perhaps you, Brent and I could each give a short ""state of the union of operations"" according to us - covering ENA, EGM and EEL).  Then definition of the operating standards that we must uphold, discussion, plans on reporting and buy in on these. Monday lunch will allow everyone to share with their tablemates a project in which they are involved that will have an impact on global consistency of operational controls, or a project which through sharing or expanding could have such an impact.  Each table can report back as we gather to start the afternoon. Having defined and discussed fundamental operating standards, we will move Monday afternoon to review of the Doorstep concept: what, why, how and lessons learned.  Then we will discuss next steps around this on-going project. Just before the afternoon break, we will roll out a new communications tool for the operations controllers:  a website tailored for the group. We will finish the afternoon by tying in operations performance and its impact on assessing and measuring market risk and credit risk, with Ted Murphy and Bill Bradford addressing the group. Monday evening will include a tour of Enron Field and dinner at Ruggles Center Field Terrace.  Bill Bradford will join us for dinner, and we are waiting for an RSVP from Ted Murphy. Tuesday morning will start with Jeff Skilling as our real keynote speaker. He plans to spend an hour plus with the group.  He will make an informal presentation and then will entertain questions.  The rest of the morning will be spent in breakout teams, with assignments to come up with specific action steps to strengthen operating controls, improve the accuracy of information provided and move toward best practices in providing mid and back office services within Enron. Before lunch, Tom Gros and I will share a short story on CommodityLogic. Philippe Bibi will join us for lunch to share his IT vision with the group. After lunch, we will wrap up and summarize next steps, including a date to reconvene much of this group perhaps early in 2001 to check progess against our designated next steps (wholesale group in London perhaps). Please call me or e:mail any comments or suggestions.  The only details still in flux are Tom Gros' availability and confirmation of Philippe's attendance. 
FYI - would love to have your comments or suggestions 
Attached is a draft agenda for your review and comments.  As speakers were confirmed, the placement of certain items on the agenda were dictated by the speakers' schedules and then logical grouping of topics around those speakers.  Sunday evening will not be heavy - simple welcome and intros, drink and dinner - I know that many will be tired from traveling.  We have arranged for a private showing of the movie Rogue Trader (complete with comfy chairs and popcorn) which I thought could be fun for the group to see as a means of setting the stage for our discussions on Monday and Tuesday.  This can be optional, as I know that jet lag my get the best of some. The morning on Monday will set the stage:  why we have gathered, endorsement of our efforts (Causey).  Perhaps you, Brent and I could each give a short ""state of the union of operations"" according to us - covering ENA, EGM and EEL).  Then definition of the operating standards that we must uphold, discussion, plans on reporting and buy in on these. Monday lunch will allow everyone to share with their tablemates a project in which they are involved that will have an impact on global consistency of operational controls, or a project which through sharing or expanding could have such an impact.  Each table can report back as we gather to start the afternoon. Having defined and discussed fundamental operating standards, we will move Monday afternoon to review of the Doorstep concept: what, why, how and lessons learned.  Then we will discuss next steps around this on-going project. Just before the afternoon break, we will roll out a new communications tool for the operations controllers:  a website tailored for the group. We will finish the afternoon by tying in operations performance and its impact on assessing and measuring market risk and credit risk, with Ted Murphy and Bill Bradford addressing the group. Monday evening will include a tour of Enron Field and dinner at Ruggles Center Field Terrace.  Bill Bradford will join us for dinner, and we are waiting for an RSVP from Ted Murphy. Tuesday morning will start with Jeff Skilling as our real keynote speaker. He plans to spend an hour plus with the group.  He will make an informal presentation and then will entertain questions.  The rest of the morning will be spent in breakout teams, with assignments to come up with specific action steps to strengthen operating controls, improve the accuracy of information provided and move toward best practices in providing mid and back office services within Enron. Before lunch, Tom Gros and I will share a short story on CommodityLogic. Philippe Bibi will join us for lunch to share his IT vision with the group. After lunch, we will wrap up and summarize next steps, including a date to reconvene much of this group perhaps early in 2001 to check progess against our designated next steps (wholesale group in London perhaps). Please call me or e:mail any comments or suggestions.  The only details still in flux are Tom Gros' availability and confirmation of Philippe's attendance. 
FYI re: schedule 
I will be out of the office for most of the day on Friday, October 20.  My dad is experiencing serious health problems, and he is coming to Houston for a doctor's appointment with a specialist that I have arranged.  I will be going with him to the appointment.  I will have my cell phone with me (713-417-1591) and I will check messages throughout the day. In my absence, please contact the following persons on Friday regarding trading operations issues: Gas Operations  Jeff Gossett  x37306 Bob Hall  x36956 Leslie Reeves x37962 Power Operations Jenny Latham x33982 Leslie Reeves x37962 DPR    Mike Moscoso x35242 MPR    David Maxwell x36983 
Attached is a draft agenda for your review and comments.  As speakers were confirmed, the placement of certain items on the agenda were dictated by the speakers' schedules and then logical grouping of topics around those speakers.  Sunday evening will not be heavy - simple welcome and intros, drink and dinner - I know that many will be tired from traveling.  We have arranged for a private showing of the movie Rogue Trader (complete with comfy chairs and popcorn) which I thought could be fun for the group to see as a means of setting the stage for our discussions on Monday and Tuesday.  This can be optional, as I know that jet lag my get the best of some. The morning on Monday will set the stage:  why we have gathered, endorsement of our efforts (Causey).  Perhaps you, Brent and I could each give a short ""state of the union of operations"" according to us - covering ENA, EGM and EEL).  Then definition of the operating standards that we must uphold, discussion, plans on reporting and buy in on these. Monday lunch will allow everyone to share with their tablemates a project in which they are involved that will have an impact on global consistency of operational controls, or a project which through sharing or expanding could have such an impact.  Each table can report back as we gather to start the afternoon. Having defined and discussed fundamental operating standards, we will move Monday afternoon to review of the Doorstep concept: what, why, how and lessons learned.  Then we will discuss next steps around this on-going project. Just before the afternoon break, we will roll out a new communications tool for the operations controllers:  a website tailored for the group. We will finish the afternoon by tying in operations performance and its impact on assessing and measuring market risk and credit risk, with Ted Murphy and Bill Bradford addressing the group. Monday evening will include a tour of Enron Field and dinner at Ruggles Center Field Terrace.  Bill Bradford will join us for dinner, and we are waiting for an RSVP from Ted Murphy. Tuesday morning will start with Jeff Skilling as our real keynote speaker. He plans to spend an hour plus with the group.  He will make an informal presentation and then will entertain questions.  The rest of the morning will be spent in breakout teams, with assignments to come up with specific action steps to strengthen operating controls, improve the accuracy of information provided and move toward best practices in providing mid and back office services within Enron. Before lunch, Tom Gros and I will share a short story on CommodityLogic. Philippe Bibi will join us for lunch to share his IT vision with the group. After lunch, we will wrap up and summarize next steps, including a date to reconvene much of this group perhaps early in 2001 to check progess against our designated next steps (wholesale group in London perhaps). Please call me or e:mail any comments or suggestions.  The only details still in flux are Tom Gros' availability and confirmation of Philippe's attendance. 
Thanks -- 3:00 pm Thursday sounds great.  On 21 I assume?  I will see you there. Thomas D Gros@ENRON 10/18/2000 05:59 PM 
1 hour is more than enough time..we can probably do a quick run through in 30 minutes if necessary..... 
I am open from 3:00 to 4:00 on Thursday - have to meet with Enron's legal counsel from Sydney at 4:00, followed by a 4:30 meeting with Delainey on a proposed asset sale.   I have rescheduled my meeting with the Sydney guy several times this week, and I think this may be my last shot of meeting with him during this trip.  Is an hour sufficient?  --Sally Thomas D Gros@ENRON 10/18/2000 02:38 PM 
Tomorrow at 3:00 works for the demo guys.  Is it still OK on your calendar? 
I will be out of the office for most of the day on Friday, October 20.  My dad is experiencing serious health problems, and he is coming to Houston for a doctor's appointment with a specialist that I have arranged.  I will be going with him to the appointment.  I will have my cell phone with me (713-417-1591) and I will check messages throughout the day. In my absence, please contact the following persons on Friday regarding trading operations issues: Gas Operations  Jeff Gossett  x37306 Bob Hall  x36956 Leslie Reeves x37962 Power Operations Jenny Latham x33982 Leslie Reeves x37962 DPR    Mike Moscoso x35242 
I sent an e:mail message yesterday saying that I could make dinner in Austin on Wednesday, October 25.  That date does not work for me now.  I need to attend a get together for the CommodityLogic team that evening, that was just set up today.  As of last week, I am now co-leading CommodityLogic (under Enron Networks) along with Tom Gros.  This is in addition to my role within ENA.  As a new lead over the group, it is important for me to join the team for their team building next Wednesday. Let me know whether or not you have enough takers for dinner in Austin next week.  If you are short, let me know and I will see what I can do on another 
What is the latest on this one?  I gather that they are still using spreadsheets, which in and of itself is not necessarily a problem.  Are their positions not being captured and aggregated?  What does Scott Mills have to say about this?  --Sally 
Thanks for the names and numbers.  I have just called and talked with Jonathan Beck and Jenia Nikolova; have left voice mail messages of congratulations for Jeremy Fitzpatrick, Matthew Olney, David Scott, Corrinn Sutton, and Thomas Underwood; and left a message with a roommate for Ryan White.  I did not get an answer of any kind when I tried Thomas Lowell's number.  He is the only one that I have not contacted at this point.  I will try his number again before I leave tonight.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
I am open from 3:00 to 4:00 on Thursday - have to meet with Enron's legal counsel from Sydney at 4:00, followed by a 4:30 meeting with Delainey on a proposed asset sale.   I have rescheduled my meeting with the Sydney guy several times this week, and I think this may be my last shot of meeting with him during this trip.  Is an hour sufficient?  --Sally Thomas D Gros@ENRON 10/18/2000 02:38 PM 
Tomorrow at 3:00 works for the demo guys.  Is it still OK on your calendar? 
FYI - Let's discuss 
The article is very informative. 
Connie: At risk of self promotion, please check this article out.  Also pass on to Sally if possible.  I hope all is going well for you. Chris - Oct13.00desk.pdf 
Thanks for passing along the announcement.  You are right, the grapevine news did precede this more formal annoucement!  Sounds as if this will be a fun position for you.  Thanks for all of the great work that you have done on behalf of mid and back office operations.  Your help in Helsinki earlier this year was especially wonderful.  I will call you when I next come to London and will hope that you will have time for lunch or dinner to catch up. --Sally Richard Sage 10/18/2000 01:14 PM 
The grapevine has probably already reached you, but in case not, here is the reason I shall be passing on questions relating to Metals and Strategic Initiatives! 
With the ongoing expansion of EnronCredit.com we have identified the need for a dedicated finance, accounting professional to handle relations concerning financial matters with external parties as well as with internal suppliers. Richard Sage will take up this position, reporting to Bryan Seyfried and to Fernley Dyson. Mark Dilworth will also be joining the EnronCredit.com team responsible for operations reporting to Bryan. Richard's remaining responsibilities in Metals integration now pass to Rob Soeldner. Steve Whitaker will coordinate the Strategic Initiatives Group, reporting to Mike Jordan. Please join us in wishing Richard, Mark and Steve success in their new roles. Bryan Seyfried & Fernley Dyson 
I will be there on the 25th.  Thanks.  --Sally 10/18/2000 11:15 AM Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON 10/18/2000 11:15 AM 10/18/2000 11:15 AM 
I apologize but the Team building will now be on Wednesday, October 25th (same location & same time).  Hope everyone can still join us. Thanks, Brenda 
We would like to invite you all to join us at our second CommodityLogic off-site Team Building.  Our objective is to welcome all the new team members to our group.  Please join us October 26th at: Kenneally's 2111  S. Shepherd Drive (713) 630-0486 beginning at 5:30pm If you have any questions, please feel free to contact Maria x35586 or Brenda x31914. 
I could go to Austin the night of Wednesday, October 25 for dinner with students if you need me.  Let me know. Enron North America Corp. 
Irfan was one of the UT students, not OU.  Just wanted to make sure that we have him on the right list. Enron North America Corp. 
As of Friday, October 13, it seems that this student had not heard back from Enron.  What is the timeline for getting back to students regarding Super Saturday? 
Dear Ms. Beck, I want to thank you for interviewing me for the analyst position last week. I enjoyed meeting you and learning about your work.  My enthusiasm for the position and my interest in working for Enron were strengthened as a result of the interview. I believe that my background and experience fit nicely with the job requirements, and I am sure that I could make a significant contribution to the firm.  I have not heard back yet and would appreciate any information you can give. Thank You, Irfan Iqbal 
Count on me for interviews at OU on Monday, October 30.  If possible, I would love to fly up on Monday morning, preserving my Sunday night at home.  The first flight from IAH to OKC arrives in OKC at 8:10 am.  I could easily be in Norman for a 9:00 am interview.  I can also stay for interviews on October 31, with a target of catching a flight from OKC at 1:35 pm back to IAH (the next flight after that for leaves OKC at 4:36 and arrives at IAH at 5:56, putting me at my house around 7:00 - too late for the start of trick or treating with a 2 year old). I plan to have dinner on Monday night with Chris Hoyle, the student that Jody Crook believes is the top graduate from the business school this year.  I would like to get to know him since I did not interview him when I was at OU this last time. I have also forwarded your message on OU to Cary Carrabine in the Chicago office.  I will let you know what I hear back from him.  Consider Shona Wilson and Steve Venturatos as interviewers again if you are short on 10/30 & 31. Finally, I have noted November 10 on my calendar for the management overview.  Keep me posted on details.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
In cleaning up e:mails, I ran across this one that I had not yet read.  Has James called and talke with you about Enpower?  Are his concerns in the memo accurate?  Let me know.  --Sally 
Just a heads-up - a long-winded email, but please see highlighted paragraphs. I find it hard to believe the scenario portrayed here, but stranger things have happened - will keep you posted. 
volatilities and correlations As you know for some time we have been trying to get the Continental Power traders to increase the volatilities they use for valuing their option portfolio and for use in calculating their VAR as it has been obvious that the market  has become more volatile but this was not being reflected in their mark. In looking at the impacts of this, various other issues came to light. Firstly it raised issues over the correlation matrix used in the VAR model as this was way out of date. We have worked with Jitendra and have now put in a matrix that both the traders, risk and RAC are happy with. Secondly, as you may be aware, in Portcalc swaptions currently use the volatility input on the deal ticket and not off any volatility curve. The current portfolio is 90% swaptions and so this represents a serious issue for us in that it is not practical to manually change all the volatilities at the deal ticket level every time the implied voaltilities change. We cannot use the option functionality as this only values hourly or daily exercise options and not fixed expiry swaptions or options. We also have not found any way in Portcalc of valuing Asian options so we are having to 'force' in the few we have. We have had the Houston based Portcalc IT team work on a 'new' piece of swaption valuation code but currently it contains a number of worrying bugs. These are primarily that the proposed code does not take the correct underlying forward price and uses the volatility of (approximating) the last day of the underlying rather than the implied volatility of the underlying. They are currently being hampered in that they do not have any IT personnel who have sufficient option knowledge (I understand that the two most experienced coders resigned to go to another Houston based energy company). This is extremely worrying and I find it hard to believe that the whole of Enron's power business is having to use the methodology of inputting the volatility at the deal ticket level. This will almost certainly mean that different volatilities are being used in the VAR as are being used to value the swaption portfolio globally. As well as these issues we have concerns over the use and accuracy of the smile adjustment in Portcalc (worryingly it does not seem that you can 'switch' this off). Briefly it seems that Portcalc calculates the delta used to adjust the volatility by comparing the strike price to the forward price of the last day of the underlying rather than the forward price of the underlying itself. We have engaged London based  IT and are looking at the code we have used in Power 99 to se if there is a way we can get something done quickly to start to value all option products off a curve and to be able to book Asian options. Once we get the above resolved we still have no way or extracting the vega or gamma risk from Portcalc in it's current state as the information is just no there (so we are told by IT). The system 'seems' (we cannot be 100% sure given all the other errors) to produce a vega and gamma P&L number but what the risk is remains a mystery. Again this is very worrying in that we have Power option traders all over the world who can't get their underlying vega or gamma risk position from the global valuation system. We are trying to work on something manual to draw a line in the sand but I would really like to know how the American based traders cope as they have this problem (knowingly or not)  for years. What sign offs were gained for the implementation of Enpower because it seems to us that using the current system it is not possible to comply with the Global Risk policy. How do we validate the inputs to the valuation if we do not know the risk ? Despite the above we have now persuaded the traders to save out newer higher volatilities a week ago and you should have seen a large move up in their VAR. However, as it stands at the moment they are notable to save out a daily remark as Jitendra is saying that he is not happy with their 'model' / vol curve generator (I have today asked for a full explanation, details of any testing etc etc and time lines so we can move to getting over this hurdle). The swaptions have also not yet had the ticket volatility changed but the impacts are expected to be positive as we are long volatility. I would appreciate your comments on the above as it seems that we are pushing the boundaries here on areas which we really expect to have already been covered in Houston some time ago and could do with some help. We are having to use a system which seems to us to have numerous bugs and short comings and are having to spend an enormous amount of IT time overcoming the inadequacies of Enpower wich I do not think most people are aware of. Consequently we have not been able to deliver all the improvements we were required to do in gaining the increased limits so 3 months ago but I would hope you agree that it is not for a lack of trying. Sorry it's so long but if there are any questions or any perceived inaccuracies in any of the above then please let me know. James 
Would you ever be interested in helping us with recruiting at OU?  As you are probably aware, the analyst programs have been combined into one program, so we are searching for top candidates to bring in for all rotations within the analyst program.  Upcoming interviews are for summer interns.  We will be on campus on Monday, October 30 (just after the OU - Nebraska game).  Let me know if you are interested or if you have any questions, and we can get you formally added to the team that is recruiting at OU. Hope that all is going well in Chicago.  --Sally 
As of Friday, October 13, it seems that this student had not heard back from Enron.  What is the timeline for getting back to students regarding Super Saturday? 
Dear Ms. Beck, I want to thank you for interviewing me for the analyst position last week. I enjoyed meeting you and learning about your work.  My enthusiasm for the position and my interest in working for Enron were strengthened as a result of the interview. I believe that my background and experience fit nicely with the job requirements, and I am sure that I could make a significant contribution to the firm.  I have not heard back yet and would appreciate any information you can give. Thank You, Irfan Iqbal 
The 13th won't work for me, unfortunately.  Rick Causey is hosting an offsite meeting from Tuesday evening (Sept. 12) through Friday (Sept. 15).  If you were to arrive early enough on Tuesday, we could try to do the review before I catch the plane on Tuesday afternoon.  The only problem with that is that the VP/MD PRC is scheduled for September 11 and 12.  I don't know that the VP portion of the PRC will be completed on Monday, or that the results would be available to me on Tuesday even if the process is completed on Monday.  We have been asked to hold VP reviews until after the PRC process is completed. I will contact you as soon as I do have the results from the PRC and we will set up a specific time for the review, either in Houston or Calgary.  Seems like it would be a good time of year for me to head north!  --Sally Peggy Hedstrom 09/05/2000 12:15 PM 
Will you have time to complete my performance review while I am in Houston next week?  I will be in the office on the afternoon of September 13th and would like to set aside some time on my calendar if you are available.  Can you let me know what time works best for you?  Another option would be to schedule some time after the VAR class training which goes until 5:00 pm on Thursday and Friday.  Please let me know your preference. Thanks Peggy 
The Associates PRC was completed on Monday, July 24.  As the PRC rep, I will communicate the final ranking from the PRC process to your supervisor.  I received a copy of the rankings from Charlene on Friday while I was on vacation.  I will be communicating the final rankings to each Associate's supervisor today.  It is your supervisor who will the one be to give you your performance review and the ranking.  In your case, I would guess that Jean and your new supervisor will have to work out which one (or both) will do your review.  --Sally 
Sally, I don't know whether you or Jean (or Paul?) should be doing the feedback meeting.  If you will be doing it, please respond with your earliest availability to conduct that meeting.  I am fairly open currently except for 3pm-4pm Mon-Thurs. Thanks, Grant W. Zimmerman Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-6210 Fax:  (713) 646-8795 
The Associates PRC meeting has been rescheduled for Monday, July 24th at 9:00 am.  I have also sent an e:mail message to the associates letting them know 
We have a new date - Monday, July 24th beginning at 9:00 am.  I will contact your supervisors after the PRC meeting to let them know the final results. Your supervisor will give your performance review and will be able to summarize the feedback received through the PEP system during the review. Thanks for providing your resumes.  I will feel more informed during the 
Today's Associates PRC meeting that was to begin at 1:30 has been cancelled and will be rescheduled for a date yet to be determined.  Both the morning Analyst PRC meeting and the Associates PRC meeting were scheduled for the same location and with Joe Sutton as chair.  The Analysts PRC meeting is apparently running very long, so someone from the program office called to cancel the Associates PRC meeting for this afternoon.  I will let you know as soon as I know a rescheduled date. In preparation for today's PRC meeting, I was able to meet in person with most of your supervisors to get input on your job responsiblities, accomplishments and performance.  For those that were unavailable for a meeting, we managed a phone call or at least a series of voice mails to accomplish the same thing.  I also have any materials that you may have provided to your supervisor for the mid-year review process, as well as copies of the internal feedback that was gathered through the PEP system. With this delay in the meeting date, I have the time to ask for a copy of your resume.  The PRC process clearly focuses on your performance specifically from January through June 2000.  However, it would be helpful to me in representing you to at least be familiar with your backgrounds.  Please e:mail a copy to me or you can send a hard copy to EB3015.  A couple of you have come by my office to meet with me.  I would also be happy to put a name and face together for others of you or to talk by phone if you are not in Houston.  My extension is 35926. 
Today's Enron-wide Associates PRC meeting has been cancelled.  It was scheduled to start at 1:30 today, following the Analysts PRC.  Apparently, the Analysts PRC is running long.  Since both meetings were scheduled for the same location and with Joe Sutton as the chair, the Associates PRC has been cancelled.  I do not yet have a rescheduled date.  I will let you know when I do.  I am also sending an e:mail message to the Associates that I am representing so that they will informed of the cancellation. Thanks for taking the time to meet or talk with me about the performance of 
Thanks for the note.  I had received a copy of the Consolidated Supervisor = ?Evaluation Form.  Today I also met with Jim and he provided me with his ?b= ullet points on your accomplishments and strengths, as well as your summary= ?of accomplishments for the period.  If there is anything else that you th= ink ?would be helpful for me to have, please let me know.  ??I will be in m= y office (EB3015) between 5:00 and 6:00 today and Tuesday ?without schedule= d meetings.  If you would like to stop by so that I can put a ?name and fac= e together, please feel free to do so.  This is my first day back ?in the o= ffice after vacation, so I have a lot of catching up to do, but I ?would be= glad to visit with you for a while.  --Sally ?????Nicole Palczer@ENRON COM= 
??Jim Row, my supervisor, let me know that you would be representing me a= t the ?PRC meeting on Wednesday.  I believe Jim's summary of my performance= should ?offer a very good overview, but if you have any further questions = 
I will serve as a representative to the  Associates PRC meeting that will take place on July 19.  As a PRC rep, I have been assigned the Associates to represent in the meeting as indicated on the attachment.  The Associates Program has provided me  with your name as the PRC supervisor of the associate as listed. Please provide me with the following by Friday, July 14: Associate's accomplishments for the first half of 2000 (prepared by the associate or summarized by you) Description of associate's current responsibilities/assignment (and any additional rotational assignments during this first six months of the year) Pre-ranking of the associate from your business unit PRC , or your suggestion on ranking if no business unit PRC process has been completed (Superior, Excellent, Strong, Satisfactory, Needs Improvement or Issues) Any other information that you believe will be helpful in accurately representing the associate in the PRC process Recommendation for promotion, if any I will receive a copy of the Consolidated Supervisor Feedback from the PEP system through the Associates Program. I will be on vacation until Monday, July 17.  My assistant, Patti Thompson, will be contacting you next week to ask if you would like to meet with me for a few minutes on Monday or Tuesday, July 17 and 18 (or phone call) to discuss your associate and his/her performance in more detail. Thanks for your attention to this.  If you are not the appropriate PRC supervisor for the associate listed on the attachment,  please reply by e:mail as soon as possible and my assistant will research where I should go next for this input. 
I don't think that John Jacobsen should be reviewed in London.  Pulp & paper is still an ENA group, even though we have John reporting to you.  I would not roll that up under Global Products as it exists today.  We did review him in our PRC.  For some reason, HR has confused the issue with the Pulp & Paper employees by putting them under Global Products rather than ENA, a step they took I believe without any outside direction.  Does this make sense to you? --Sally 
Left these two off original list: Director  Stephen Schwarz Satisfactory Sr. Director  Steve Jackson  Strong 
Superior	Excellent	Strong	Satisfactory	Needs Improv.	Issues Directors	Todd Hall		Susan Harrison Scott Mills Eugenio Perez Bob Superty Sheri Thomas Steve Ventoratos Sr. Directors	Kristin Albrecht	Mary Solmonson	Brenda Herod Leslie Reeves	Sheila Glover	James Scribner VP		Brent Price	Peggy Hedstrom 
Sally, Following our Doorstep meeting today, I am following up on your request that I forward to you the list of Portland transactions for which we still require documentation, e.g. invoices, SAP entries, etc.  For the Settlements testing only, we reduced the deal population from 23 to ten randomly-selected transactions, in order to facilitate the Settlement group's ability to complete both its monthly close obligations and our Doorstep request.  The deal selection is indicated in yellow, and the missing items, in green. Also per your request, attached are the five ""non-standard"" deals for which we have been unable to obtain any information at all.  Our primary need is just to get a basic understanding of these transactions. Colorado Springs Utilities  10/1/98-9/30/03 Colorado 50-150 MWs BPA     10/1/01-12/31/05 NW Delivered 105 MWs Welded Tube    1/1/98-6/30/05 PGE - NW 5.2-12MWs British Columbia Power Exchange 1/1/98-1/1/15 COB 85-176 MWs Harbor Cogen Thank you for your help, Sally, Ken 
Superior	Excellent	Strong	Satisfactory	Needs Improv.	Issues Directors	Todd Hall		Susan Harrison Scott Mills Eugenio Perez Bob Superty Sheri Thomas Steve Ventoratos Sr. Directors	Kristin Albrecht	Mary Solmonson	Brenda Herod Leslie Reeves	Sheila Glover	James Scribner 
I hope that your holiday was wonderful.  Nikki told me that you would be working from home today, but I decided not to bother you there.  I will try to have Patti connect me with you during my commute on Tuesday morning.  I start with a 7:30 meeting (Houston time), so I should be in my car from 6:30 to about 7:15. I let Nikki know about a rescheduled date from Rick's PRC last week.  I don't think that there had been any widespread communication about the new date of June 27.  Will you still plan to come to Houston next week?  I have scheduled dinner for us on Wednesday evening, assuming that you will still make the trip.  Just let me know.  Will you also be back for the meeting on June 27? Before you left for vacation I had tried to reach you regarding the MG acquisition.  That should make life fun for you!  I wanted to talk about resources and how I might be able to help in both the further due diligence efforts and longer term in the assimilation.  As in my voice mail, I believe that a doorstep review of trading locations would be critical, both from a controls perspective and from the perspective of an up close view of how they run their business.  It seems that might help jump start the plans around how best to assimilate the business.  I had suggested my new hire, Shona Wilson, as a potential resource and then there are several of us who have already been involved in doorstep reviews that could be involved both in the US and in other locations.  Brent has forwarded a memo to me from Naomi Connell  who seems to be formulating a plan for the doorstep reviews.   I don't know the names that she mentions (other than Tani Nath), and I am sure that she is unaware of additional resources from Houston that could be used.  We can 
For the May 8th expanded staff meeting, I would like to include Kevin Heal (Lead, Logistics) and Dianne Seib (Sr. Specialist, Documentation) as well as Kathy Reeves who is currently my only direct report at the manager level. Kevin and Dianne provide a lot of leadership to their respective groups, and I think it would be very useful for them to hear what Beth has to say.  Do you think this will cause a problem given that you are restricting the Houston attendance?  Let me know your thoughts. For the PRC meeting, I am currently planning to be in Houston June 15th and 16th for the Global conference.  The best dates for me would be Tuesday, June 13th or  Wednesday, June 14th, and I'll just come to Houston earlier than planned.  Let me know once you've finalized the date. For the training, there are only three people in Energy Operations doing reviews.  The three are Kevin Heal, Kathy Reeves and me.  I don't know Norma's last name so would you mind forwarding this list to her.  I will talk to Dawn Doucet about the best way to coordinate the training. Let me know if you have questions. 
Hope your long weekend was a good one, uneventful on Monday, at least.  Got your message last Friday.  It seems as if Kristin is more and more interested in the EBS role, especially after her continuing discussions with Jim Fallon.  The timing of her trip to London is somewhat up in the air.  May be the end of this week, may be next week.  I think it will still be good for you and Kristin to talk in person.  Kristin and Todd are both very qualified and you would love working with both.  Kristin's established working relationship with Jim Fallon would definitely be a plus.  I don't want to lose both of them from ENA, however, at the same time.  So I would suggest that we make it an either or propostion. I got your message on housing/location in Houston.  I am headed out of the office soon for an offsite meeting hosted by ENA's Office of the Chairman.  I will call you on Friday when I am back in the office and talk through some 
We did talk about the creation of these new positions within gas support.  I have also discussed this at length with Brent, and agree that the shift of manager positions to front to back looks across each region (eliminating the OA and Deal Validation manager roles) makes sense.  Upon the recommendation of Susan and Brent, I am comfortable with appointing Jeff Gossett as the manager of the West region. Kim Melodick 04/17/2000 10:46 AM 
Susan indicated that she had a conversation with you about these promotions. Are you comfortable going forward with them? 
We are in the process of reorganizing several functional groups within Gas Operations.  With this change, we want to promote Jeff Gossett to Manager effective May 1.  The following describes the reorganization and justification for the promotion. The Risk Management, Operational Analysis, Transport Rates and Deal Validation groups will be realigned into four regional teams and managed by Business Controllers.  There will also be a centralized Controls group with 2-3 individuals that will be managed by a different Business Controller. With this realignment, we are creating five new manager positions (four regional and one Controls) and eliminating the two manager positions for the Deal Validation and the Operational Analysis/Transport Rates groups.  The regional Business Controllers will be responsible for managing the day-to-day activities of their regional teams, including interacting with the Trading Desk Directors, and the Controls manager will work across the regional teams to ensure consistency and efficiency in our processes. The new Controller positions will be filled as follows: West - Jeff Gossett Central - Carrie Hollomon East - Will Kelly (Senior Specialist) Controls - Kathryn Cordes Texas - TBD (Brenda Herod to hire) We are promoting Jeff Gossett at this time due to the responsibilities he will be carrying in the Controller role in addition to his current responsibilities for the NGP&L and Benchmark functions. Will Kelly's performance will be evaluated during the next few months to determine if he will be the permanent Controller for the East region.  If he performs well in this role, mid-year promotion will be pursued. Please let me know if you have any questions.  I will follow-up next week to discuss a salary adjustment for Jeff Gossett. Thanks, Susan 
Approved. Sally 
Sally, Lisa Cousino has requested average salaries for various job levels from HR. If it is okay to release this information to Lisa, please forward to Norma with your approval. Patti 
Thanks for the Pappa's gift certicate.  For a woman who can't remember the last time that she cooked dinner, this will come in very handy!  Thanks, too, for the beautiful flower arrangement that has graced my desk for the past two days.  I will take that home with me tonight and I will enjoy it during my upcoming days off. I hope that the Christmas holiday brings each of you the joy of the season -- and some rest, relaxation and time with family and friends.  Thanks for your enthusiasm in your role at Enron and for your continuing and tireless effort.  It is through working with each one of you that I find my job to be fun.  1999 was a year of outstanding accomplishments for Energy Operations - a direct result of your contributions.  I look forward to meeting new 
I have this on my calendar and I will be there.  Thanks. --Sally 
Glad you could make it yesterday.  I don't play (at least not in front of others), so I do look for golfers from time to time.  I will keep your number handy! Enron Capital Management 
Crazy week -- 7:00 pm and I just finished a project for Delainey that I got at noon today.  Cancelled everything on the calendar and have been immersed ever since.  Patti gave me your message with your home number around 5:30 today, just as she was leaving -- apologized for not giving it to me earlier.  However, given my immediate project, I don't think that I could have called until now.  And at 1:00am London time, I think that this e:mail is much better. I am still really crunched tomorrow morning.  All of our mid-year reviews must be completed by the time we have our ENA Office of the Chair staff meeting at 2:30 tomorrow.  Big push, after an over percentage completion rate of about 60% at our ENA meeting two weeks ago.  Some of those unfinished reviews were mine to give (16 direct reports is a killer).  I wrote three last night after Tyler went to bed, finished at 1:00 am and gave all three reviews this morning.  I have 5 more to write tonight, and to deliver tomorrow morning to be at 100%.  I will try to call you on my way into the office tomorrow morning from the car.  If I miss you then, it will be late afternoon Houston time before I could call you.  Next week shapes up to be MUCH better. I am definitely very interested in continuing our conversations.  Would love to have to over here and involved in operations.  So I will either catch you 
If HR can not find this signed review, can Clara communicate with someone in your group in Houston to be able to access a copy of the review by 11:00 am on Friday?  That is the deadline for the final tally on completed reviews (defined strictly by HR as their having received - and retained, I guess - the signed review).  The goal is 100% completion by then, for reporting in the ENA Office of the Chair staff meeting on Friday afternoon.  Although many employees are now not under the ENA umbrella, we are tracking the completion of reviews by their operating company assignment at the mid-year PRC time. Thanks. Of course, I believe you said that this guy left the company, and if that is the case we may be alright without the review.  But getting a second copy from Clara would probably be the best bet.  Thanks. 
11th grade ticktocker meeting details: Location:   Home of Kristen and Nancy Dipaulo (check my spelling on this one!) Time:   2:00 to 4:00 Program: SAT Preparation (Klein High School Counselor) Senior Presentation Responsibilities (Nancy Galante) Planning for Holiday Adopt-A-Family Thanks, Beverly!!  --Sally Beverly Gibson <bgibson50606@yahoo.com> on 10/12/2000 08:57:26 AM 
Grade Level Advisors: If you will give me the information about Sunday's Ticktocker Meetings, I can send out a reminder notice to those people for which I have e-mail addresses. Beverly Gibson __________________________________________________ Do You Yahoo!? Get Yahoo! Mail - Free email you can access from anywhere! http://mail.yahoo.com/ 
I scheduled this meeting in Houston to best accomodate schedules of some of our Enron speakers -- the hill country or even Galveston was going to make it impossible for Jeff Skilling to join us.  I would look at this meeting as if it were to be held outside of town.  I have preliminarily reserved rooms for all of you at the Wyndham Warwick.  Part of the reason for this forum is to meet and get to know your counterparts in other Enron operating companies and from around the world.  If you can stay at the hotel, this team building will probably be enhanced.  This memo is not to force you to pack your bags and stay at the hotel, but to let you know that my budget for the event did include rooms for all of you for Sunday and Monday nights.  I hate the Sunday thing, but in trying to minimize the time out of the office for those who will travel from far away, this best suited their schedules.  Please let Patti know on Thursday whether or not you would like a room at the hotel to 
I am forwarding a message from a Wellesley student which includes her resume.  Let's make sure that she is on our interview schedule for our return visit in November.  I talked with her quite a bit before the presentation, and was impressed with her.  She has followed up with phone calls and this e:mail.  I am sending her some additional information on Enron at her request to help familiarize her with the company.  Her work experience to date has been with more traditional energy companies. --Sally 
Dear Ms. Beck: I am writing to thank you for taking your time to talk with me on the phone this morning. I am very excited about this opprtunity to speak with you again. I understand that you must very busy now and I attach my resume to gain more time to discuss how my background fits Enron's requirements and business objectives. I will call you at 4.30 pm today. Thank you, Sona - e_resume_S.K..doc 
Did you get to check on lunch plans for Thursday or Friday next week with directs?  This looks like it could conflict. 
I was in Austin the end of last week recruiting at UT and (in a sense of open-mindedness and fair play) was at OU on Sunday night and Monday recruiting as well. James and I have not had a chance to talk following your conversations.  Nor am I really caught up on e:mail messages.  I have some tight deadlines on a couple of things for Friday, so it may be Monday before James and I have the opportunity to talk in any detail. Mike Campbell <MCampbell@HDINC.COM> on 10/10/2000 04:12:47 PM 
Sally, We had a good meeting with James last week - I hope you have had the opportunity to talk with him about it. What are the next steps? Would you like to get together and have a mini-planning session on developing the business maturity model around your business opportunities? We got a chance to talk with James a little on that front, but he is not sure where your thinking is on some of these approaches. I believe that is the best way to get the changes you are seeking and accomplish the other business objectives at the same time. Please let me know. Thanks, Mike Campbell Holland & Davis, Inc mcampbell@hdinc.com 713-877-8130 
I did find one that I have not used.  You will just need to change the information at the top of the page. 
Attached is your actual form.  I did not have a totally blank one to forward, as I have actually done work on all evals on my disk.  So I am sending yours so that you can erase your data and use this as a template.  Hope this works! 
Hector has still referred to the key players under Jeff Gossett as managers. However, only one of these (Will Kelly) is a manager.  The remainder are senior specialists.  Let me know if you would like to discuss any of this in detail.  We are potentially exposed for Steve Jackson to hire some of these players away.  Steve is going to have deliverables at his new employer, our competitor, which will require that he have good people.  He will be moving to Columbus, Ohio where he will not personally know anyone locally to hire. He does know these risk specialists here, and being young and single or childless, their mobility factors could be high.  Enron would not want to lose any other talent to Steve's new employer. 
Hector:  The key employees that Jeff has identified are senior specialists, with the exception of Will Kelly.  If you remember, these are the risk employees that I was concerned about when Steve Jackson tendered his letter of resignation.  Steve will be taking a similar role with a competitor, and it is not inconceivable that he might approach some Enron employees to join him and help ensure his success with his new employer.  We don't want this to happen.  Waiting until the end of November to implement an effective retention plan does not make sense.  Please call me tomorrow and let's talk about how we can jump start this.  Thanks.  --Sally 
Thanks for forwarding this contact list.  You should add my contact information to the list as well and redistribute to the team.  Thanks. Office 713-853-5926 Home 281-370-8568 Cell  713-417-1591 10/11/2000 01:30 PM Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON 10/11/2000 01:30 PM 10/11/2000 01:30 PM 
Here you go ladies: I will forward any updates as they become available. Thanks, Brenda 
Thanks for asking me.  I enjoyed the opportunity to meet your team and to talk with them. 
?? 
Thanks for the note, and thanks, too, for taking time on both days to talk with us.  You should hear from Lexi soon regarding the Super Saturday event. ""Brian's Mail"" <bkanatzar@mail.utexas.edu> on 10/10/2000 06:16:33 PM Please respond to ""Brian's Mail"" <bkanatzar@mail.utexas.edu> 
Dear Ms. Beck, ? Just a?short note to thank you for my  interview last week.? I continue to be impressed Enron's record of  innovation and the?talented people they hire.? As you continue to  consider applicants for positions, I hope you will keep me in mind.? I am  confident I can be an asset to your company. ? ??? ???  ??? ??? ??? ???  ??? ??? ??? ???  ??? ??? Sincerely, ??? ???  ??? ??? ??? ???  ??? ??? ??? ???  ??? ??? Brian Kanatzar 
It was a pleasure to meet you and to talk with someone who knows ERCOT, PJM, etc.!  Thanks for taking the time on both Wednesday and Thursday to visit with us.  You should be hearing from Lexi soon regarding our Super Saturday event. ""Max Sell"" <rudolf@mail.utexas.edu> on 10/10/2000 06:25:47 PM 
Hi Sally, I want to thank you for interviewing with me last Thursday.  You made the interview more relaxing and I enjoyed our conversation.  After speaking with you and the other Enron people, I've become very interested in Enron.  I would be thrilled to come work with you at Enron. Sincerely, Max Sell 
I hope that you got my reminder message that I was attending Wes Colwell's PRC meeting today, which kept me from attending the ENW staff meeting over lunch today.  My remaining PRC obligations are as follows: Friday, Dec. 8   Energy Operations PRC   8:00 am until ? (ENA, EGM, EIM) Monday, Dec. 11 `  Enron Wholesale Services PRC  8:00 - 9:30 am Wednesday, Dec. 13  Associates       7:30 am until ? The Enron Americas Management Team Offsite scheduled for Las Vegas December 
Hector:  The key employees that Jeff has identified are senior specialists, with the exception of Will Kelly.  If you remember, these are the risk employees that I was concerned about when Steve Jackson tendered his letter of resignation.  Steve will be taking a similar role with a competitor, and it is not inconceivable that he might approach some Enron employees to join him and help ensure his success with his new employer.  We don't want this to happen.  Waiting until the end of November to implement an effective retention plan does not make sense.  Please call me tomorrow and let's talk about how we can jump start this.  Thanks.  --Sally 
I am so glad that you will be able to attend.  I will have a fully developed draft agenda available within the next couple of days.  It may help to know that the plans for Sunday will start with a cocktail reception at 5:00 at the hotel, followed by dinner at the hotel at 7:00.  We hope to have Mark Frevert join us that night to informally address the group.  Sunday night will be low-key, as so many of you will have travelled a number of hours to get to Houston.  On Tuesday, the plan is to meet until mid-afternoon (3:00?), so that some of the London participants can fly back to London that evening.  I do believe that some will stay Tuesday night and will plan to have meetings in the Houston office on Wednesday.  If that is the case, I will also arrange a dinner for Tuesday night.  Hope that this helps! HEIDI MASON@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 10/08/2000 11:37 PM 
Thanks for the invitation Sally and I would be delighted to attend. When it is convenient could someone please send me the agenda so that I can ensure the flight times I have booked are appropriate. With thanks Heidi Mason Chief Financial Officer Enron Australia Sally Beck@ECT Sent by: Patti Thompson@ECT 06/10/2000 07:05 AM 
Save the date!  October 22-24  has been reserved for the Enron-wide Operations Controller Forum to be held in Houston at the Warwick Hotel.  To accommodate the desired travel schedule of our attendees outside the Houston office, the forum will kick-off the evening of Sunday, October 22.  We will have a full day and evening on Monday, October 23, and the forum will conclude mid-afternoon on Tuesday, October 24. Many key Enron players will join us for portions of the forum.  Speakers confirmed to date are Jeff Skilling, Rick Causey, Ted Murphy and Bill Bradford. Details will follow in the next few days.  All hotel accommodations will be arranged by Patti and charges for these will be absorbed by my cost center. Please make your own airline reservations. I look forward to seeing you at the forum.  This will be a unique opportunity to get know your counterparts from the wholesale, retail, and broadband segments of Enron, with contingents from the U.S., Canada, England, Australia, and Japan. Sally 
Please keep this for reference as we create a holiday contact list.  Thanks. 
I always compile a contact list for Energy Operations during the holidays (Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years).  Just let me know who appropriate contacts will be, especially for the DPR and MPR, during the dates that you are out.  Sounds as if you should see a white Christmas!  --Sally 
Good input on those leather pants.  I can just picture her shopping.  We will look forward to seeing you for lunch on Saturday.  The weather looks as if it should be good for the game that night.  See you soon! ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 10/09/2000 11:30:37 AM 
Hi, Sally--am sure you are glad to be back from cold, dark, cruel Oklahoma! We will need to drive over early Saturday.  Brigeda has an art lesson at 4pm on Fridays so we wouldn't be able to hit the road until pretty late. Found out this morning she has pneumonia--has had a cough I decided I should check out--although she is not contagious and is staying in school... Brigeda went shopping with your Gap card this weekend--she thought it was just too cool.  She is very conservative with money so she shopped the sale racks.  I stayed out of the selection process totally--certainly a sign of things to come!  She picked out two jean skirts and two shirts--no doubt she will wear them to your house--I believe that she is trying to look/dress like Amanda.  (I did, however, dissuade her from buying the leather pants--told her that would be way too sweaty!) Looking forward to seeing you all on Saturday.  We'll plan to hit the road by 9. Cindy 
Thanks for looking into this for me. Enron North America Corp. 
It is with regret that I have accepted Steve Jackson's letter of resignation from Enron.  Steve has made a choice to leave Enron and to join another company in the industry.  I know that you will join me in thanking him for his many years of service to Enron and the contributions that he has made. His risk expertise and his knowledge of ENA transactions will be missed, as will his leadership on the gas team.  Although Steve's official last day with the company is in two weeks, today is his last day in the office.  He will be available by phone over the next two weeks if there are questions that you may have on any open items that you were covering with Steve.  Patti has his home number if you need that.  We will also plan a happy hour for Steve and we will let you know when and where that will take place. Effective tomorrow, Jeff Gossett will assume leadership of the gas risk group, reporting to me.  Jeff will join Bob Hall and Leslie Reeves as business controllers for Natural Gas, to continue to work together to provide leadership for the processes, controls, people and systems that support all aspects of this key business for North America.  Please join me in 
FYI...I will keep you posted. 
While recruiting on campus recently I became aware that a decision was made at the Program level to not interview this fall for 2001 summer interns.  In talking with students and faculty at The University of Texas and University of Oklahoma, it became clear that there is concern over the feasibility of an internship with Enron, as other top firms will be recruiting this fall for summer 2001 interns.  I have communicated my concerns to Lexi Elliott and her manager, Shelley Jones, and was told by both that the decision to delay interviews for summer interns was made at a Program level based on Enron's staffing.  When I asked about the competitive data available regarding the practice of other firms on summer intern interviews, I was even more concerned to discover that neither Lexi nor Shelley had that data.  It would seem critical to know what the competition is doing in terms of summer intern interview schedules in order to understand the risk that could be created for Enron by not interviewing this fall for these important feeder positions for our Analyst and Associates programs. I have had conversations over the last two weeks with Lexi and Shelley, with no resolution.  When they could not provide the competitive data to either confirm or eliminate my concerns, I volunteered to have James Scribner, a Senior Director on my team, obtain this market information.  Lexi and Shelley either did not have the time to gather this data, or were not sure how to do so.  They were pleased to have some help in getting our hands on this critical information.  I now have information at hand with regard to firms that will be recruiting at UT and OU this fall for summer intern positions. And based on this information, I believe that Enron is at risk for not hiring top students as interns for the summer of 2001 if we do not interview for these positions this fall. While my research only touches on two of the schools at which Enron recruits, I want to raise concern over this as a potential problem at many, if not all campuses that we have targeted for recruiting.    As administrators of the program, you rely on the involvement of senior members of the company to carry the Enron message to campus.  I believe that we also have an obligation to make this a two-way messaging system.  I strongly believe that we must address this potential risk for Enron extremely quickly, as teams will be on campuses across the country to conduct interviews in a matter of days.  I suspect that many Enron participants in the recruiting process are unaware of the Program's decision regarding the timing of interviews for summer internships.  In working with Rick Causey and Mike McConnell, executive sponsors for UT and OU, respectively, they are as concerned as I about the decision on interviewing summer interns.  I have copied both of them on this note to the two of you. Please let me know how this can be resolved.  With the help of James Scribner and others, we have already compiled a list of students at UT and OU that should be targeted for summer internships.  I will offer as much of my time as is feasible to work with staff members of the Program to devise creative ways to turn this around. 
I had lunch with Barry yesterday and suggested that they might benefit from attending these meetings.  Hope you don't mind my extending that invitation. --Sally 
Could you please include Kristin and myself on the guest list for these meetings. I think we would benefit from attending. Thanks. 
While recruiting on campus recently I became aware that a decision was made at the Program level to not interview this fall for 2001 summer interns.  In talking with students and faculty at The University of Texas and University of Oklahoma, it became clear that there is concern over the feasibility of an internship with Enron, as other top firms will be recruiting this fall for summer 2001 interns.  I have communicated my concerns to Lexi Elliott and her manager, Shelley Jones, and was told by both that the decision to delay interviews for summer interns was made at a Program level based on Enron's staffing.  When I asked about the competitive data available regarding the practice of other firms on summer intern interviews, I was even more concerned to discover that neither Lexi nor Shelley had that data.  It would seem critical to know what the competition is doing in terms of summer intern interview schedules in order to understand the risk that could be created for Enron by not interviewing this fall for these important feeder positions for our Analyst and Associates programs. I have had conversations over the last two weeks with Lexi and Shelley, with no resolution.  When they could not provide the competitive data to either confirm or eliminate my concerns, I volunteered to have James Scribner, a Senior Director on my team, obtain this market information.  Lexi and Shelley either did not have the time to gather this data, or were not sure how to do so.  They were pleased to have some help in getting our hands on this critical information.  I now have information at hand with regard to firms that will be recruiting at UT and OU this fall for summer intern positions. And based on this information, I believe that Enron is at risk for not hiring top students as interns for the summer of 2001 if we do not interview for these positions this fall. While my research only touches on two of the schools at which Enron recruits, I want to raise concern over this as a potential problem at many, if not all campuses that we have targeted for recruiting.    As administrators of the program, you rely on the involvement of senior members of the company to carry the Enron message to campus.  I believe that we also have an obligation to make this a two-way messaging system.  I strongly believe that we must address this potential risk for Enron extremely quickly, as teams will be on campuses across the country to conduct interviews in a matter of days.  I suspect that many Enron participants in the recruiting process are unaware of the Program's decision regarding the timing of interviews for summer internships.  In working with Rick Causey and Mike McConnell, executive sponsors for UT and OU, respectively, they are as concerned as I about the decision on interviewing summer interns.  I have copied both of them on this note to the two of you. Please let me know how this can be resolved.  With the help of James Scribner and others, we have already compiled a list of students at UT and OU that should be targeted for summer internships.  I will offer as much of my time as is feasible to work with staff members of the Program to devise creative 
Attached is a memo that I have sent to Mike Jordan regarding the Operations Controller forum set for October 22, 23 and 24.  I want to send the official invitation early next week.  I have conferred with Mike on attendees from EEL.   Since I do not know all of the reporting relationships in London, I did want to share this list with you and get your input as well before it is finalized.  Please let me know your thoughts on attendees per the attached. Mike was not sure that you would want to be included, but I certainly want to invite you and would very much welcome your attendance.  If you can come, I would be great for you to address the group if you would like to do so.  Just let me know.  Jeff Skilling, Rick Causey, Ted Murphy and Bill Bradford are confirmed as speakers, and I am waiting to hear from Mark Frevert on his participation.  I expect to sent a preliminary agenda out for review next week as well, and would welcome your comments on that. Hope you have a great weekend.  --Sally 
Peggy, is the EOL bridge functionality working for you in Calgary?  Jeff Gossett was in a meeting with me on Monday this week discussing systems issues.  Beth Perlman mentioned that the EOL bridging had been completed, but Jeff spoke up and said that it was not working correctly.  You or someone on your team may want to call Jeff to understand the issues that he was having to be certain that you are happy with the functionality that you now have in Calgary.  Thanks. Peggy Hedstrom 09/28/2000 12:11 PM 
Please update the following items for Project Doorstep: Observation:  Term transactions executed via EOL do not automatically bridge into the capture systems thus increasing the amount of transactions manually captured. Status: The bridge from EOL to Sitara for term transactions was placed into production on September 21st.  This item is now completed. For your information, we are planning to complete our Enpower testing today and are working with Houston to go into production tomorrow.  I will let you know once this is done. Let me know if you have any questions. Peggy 
I will be recruiting at Wellsley College for the Analyst Program on Thursday, September 28.  I will fly back from Boston on Friday, September 29 and I should be back in the office between 11:30 and 12:00.  My assistant, Patti Thompson (x39106) has numbers where I can be reached.  While I am out of the office, the following persons will serve as key contacts: Gas Operations  Bob Hall  x36956 Leslie Reeves x37962 Steve Jackson x37070 Power Operations Jenny Latham x33982 Leslie Reeves x37962 DPR    Mike Moscoso x35242 
FYI 
Based on the recent changes in Global Markets, specifically Global Products and Coal, the follow organizational changes have been implemented. Michelle Bruce will assume the Global Products business lead role.  She will be responsible for ensuring that the business processes and procedures are as effective and efficient as possible.  She will also be working with other groups and offices to ensure consistency of both performance measures and business standards.  John Swinney, lead of Risk Management, and Lisa Walker, lead of Logistics Coordination, will report directly to Michelle. Michelle Thomason will continue in her current strategic planning role.  In addition, she will assume the business lead role supporting new endeavors that our will group will become involved in, including the cost of funds and prepays activity.  Michelle will report to Michelle Bruce. We are pleased to announce that Jeff Sorenson has joined the Global Products management team .  He will be responsible for physical confirmations as well as coordinating the financial confirmations and financial settlements for Global Markets.  Lynn Shivers, Documentation lead and his group, will report to Jeff. Mark Leskowitz will continue to manage the trade accounting group for both Global Products and coal as well as all physical settlements for both business lines.  Julie Sengele will help with the physical settlements and the coal trade accounting.  Julie will report directly to Mark. Michelle Bruce, Jeff Sorsenson and Mark Leskowitz will report directly to me. Simon Thurbin has joined us from the London office on a temporary assignment working with Michelle Bruce to define consistent business processes, practices and procedures.   As a result of this global effort, we will work to ensure consistency and continuity between the Houston and London offices. Joel Bennett has joined us from the London office.  He will be working on changing the Global risk book process, which is being transitioned to Houston. Shelly Stubbs will be going to London on a temporary assignment to work with Cindy Horn focusing on processes on procedures, specifically controls. Please join me in supporting all of these people in their new roles and additional responsibilities. Regards, Scott 
4 counterparties for a total of $10.2MM makes me think that each one must be pretty large.  I am copying Leslie on this note, as I would like to know the names of the counterparties in the over 90 day bucket and how many dollars are associated with each one -- also how likely we think that collection is in each case. Leslie:  I know that it may be that reconciliation is not far enough along at this point to provide this kind of detail, but it is the type of question that Dave may ask. Lisa B Cousino 09/27/2000 02:19 PM 
Sally - I checked into the number of counterparties that we included in the A/R balances that were being reconciled.  It is 4 as stated below.  Please let me know if you need anything else.  I did deliver copies of they July and August report to Tammie Shepherd. Lisa 
Actually, counting the monetized counterparty that we lumped in it would be 4 counterparties. Audrey Cook 09/26/2000 02:42 PM 
Brian, The answer to your question regarding the number of counterparties in ""reconciliation status"" on the Delaney Report is 3.  Let me know if you have any further questions.  Thanks ajc 
Decisions, decisions ...they are tough for her.  I suppose that if she wants others to host the shower that we can just split the cost of a couple of packs of diaper pins and then focus on eating all the sandwiches and cake that we can!  (Do you think that we will be invited?)  That really sounds ugly, and I don't mean it to.  I think that your idea was a great one, but if she has too many offers we can probably just as easily be guests.  Let me know when the deliberation process is completed!  --Sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 09/27/2000 03:12:05 PM 
Late Jan sounds great.  Meagan does have a couple of big things on the weekend in January -- National Charity League Senior Presentation (big dance that she and I are committed to help with), the Bearkadette Ball and a winter party for Cotillion.  I believe that these are three weekends in a row, January 6, 13 and 20th.  So the last weekend in January would work well (and I will need a rest from formal affairs!).  Does that work for you?  And do you want to do it on a Saturday or Sunday?  Saturday probably works better for me, just so that I am back in Houston and doing laundry by Sunday afternoon!! ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 09/26/2000 09:46:52 AM 
Hi... Talked to the little mother-to-be.  She said a shower would be grand.  She has some big presentation mid-January.  How does late January sound to you. Should we set a date now?  Am I turning into Mother? Cindy 
This memo apparently was already out on e:mail when we were meeting in my office regarding confirmations.  The language regarding Jeff's role on financial confirmations and settlements was left in the memo.  It wasn't clear to me when we met whether Scott and Leslie had talked while looking at a draft of the memo or whether she had seen this on e:mail.  Since you said that you had not seen this memo, please follow up with Scott, Leslie and Jeff to ensure a common understanding around financial confirmations and settlements so that can be communicated within the organization.  There should not be confusion over who has responsibility for financial confirms and settlements.  This memo as sent will create that confusion.  Thanks. 
Based on the recent changes in Global Markets, specifically Global Products and Coal, the follow organizational changes have been implemented. Michelle Bruce will assume the Global Products business lead role.  She will be responsible for ensuring that the business processes and procedures are as effective and efficient as possible.  She will also be working with other groups and offices to ensure consistency of both performance measures and business standards.  John Swinney, lead of Risk Management, and Lisa Walker, lead of Logistics Coordination, will report directly to Michelle. Michelle Thomason will continue in her current strategic planning role.  In addition, she will assume the business lead role supporting new endeavors that our will group will become involved in, including the cost of funds and prepays activity.  Michelle will report to Michelle Bruce. We are pleased to announce that Jeff Sorenson has joined the Global Products management team .  He will be responsible for physical confirmations as well as coordinating the financial confirmations and financial settlements for Global Markets.  Lynn Shivers, Documentation lead and his group, will report to Jeff. Mark Leskowitz will continue to manage the trade accounting group for both Global Products and coal as well as all physical settlements for both business lines.  Julie Sengele will help with the physical settlements and the coal trade accounting.  Julie will report directly to Mark. Michelle Bruce, Jeff Sorsenson and Mark Leskowitz will report directly to me. Simon Thurbin has joined us from the London office on a temporary assignment working with Michelle Bruce to define consistent business processes, practices and procedures.   As a result of this global effort, we will work to ensure consistency and continuity between the Houston and London offices. Joel Bennett has joined us from the London office.  He will be working on changing the Global risk book process, which is being transitioned to Houston. Shelly Stubbs will be going to London on a temporary assignment to work with Cindy Horn focusing on processes on procedures, specifically controls. Please join me in supporting all of these people in their new roles and additional responsibilities. Regards, Scott 
Thanks for sending the dates in writing.  We already have this on our home calendar and all five of us are looking forward to your visit.  I did confirm that there is a home football game on Friday, November 3, so if you all are interested in going, we will have plenty of tickets.  The weather should be great here then. I have also blocked off Friday, November 3 from work so that we can do something fun with the kids -- zoo, Children's Museum, etc. I sent Mo an e:mail message about your stay in Houston in hopes that she may need to be in Houston at that time.  I will let you know what I hear from her. ""RODEGHIERO,STEPHANIE (HP-Boise,ex1)"" <stephanie_rodeghiero@hp.com> on 09/14/2000 03:31:41 PM 
Hi Sally, I am so excited to see you and your family.  For your written records...we'll in be Austin from Oct 27- Oct 31.  Then, we'll travel to Houston via the Blue Bell ice cream factory on Nov 1st -- our plane leaves from Houston on Sat, Nov 4th about 12:30.  Doing something on Friday with Rebecca and Tyler sounds great -- she's pretty much up for anything. Let me know what you hear from Mo -- it would be wonderful to see her, too. Paul and I were starting to worry that something bad had happened in her life!  It has been so long since we have talked to her. This week's issue of Business Week has Enron in a list of the top 50 companies who are making the Internet work for them in running their business  -- the focus for Enron was on the different trading operations, highlighting trading broadband capacity.  I read BW weekly and Enron seems to be in there a lot. Take Care, Stephanie 
Is this a timeline for all of ENA, or just for the accounting group? 
Please note that earnings and headcount templates are due to Consolidations on Monday, October 2nd.  Attached is the latest timeline.  Please submit your templates to Trey Hardy by then.  Several guidelines or allocation calculations (e.g., IT) have not been sent to you because we have not received them from Corp. or ENW.  Therefore, we recommend that you use the guidelines from 2000.  That should avoid any delays for Monday. Please forward this to anyone who is participating in the Plan 2001 process. Call me if you have any questions (x58694).  Thank you. DT 
Good memo - let me know if you see results. Enron North America Corp. 
Hope are things in London?  I have seen Beth Apollo at two meetings in Texas recently, one in Dallas and one in San Antonio.  We have been making the Texas circuit -- not quite as exciting as your travels. I have heard from Stephanie, and she, Paul and Rebecca are headed to Texas at the end of October/beginning of November.  She will be interviewing students at UT on October 30 and 31 and then she and her family will be in Houston from Wesneday, November 1 to Saturday, November 4.  They will be staying with us at our house.  It will be fun to watch Tyler and Rebecca get to know one another!  She is an older woman, but I am sure that they do well.  By the way, Stephanie is expecting baby number two -- I think that when she is here she will be about six months pregnant. I thought that I would let you know what her travel plans are on the off chance that you might be in Houston at that time.  It would be fun for all of us to get together.  I don't know if I had told you, but Chuck Randall has joined Enron and this week I saw another old First City banker, Jeff Baker, who was on his first day here.  We could also schedule a First City reunion if you could be here.  If it doesn't work this time, just let me know the next time you will be in Houston and I will round up all the usual suspects for a lunch or happy hour. I may need to head to London in October or November.  I will let you know if my travel plans develop. I hear from Beth that you have taken a very adventurous vacation -- mountain climbing!!!!!!!  How was it?  I will be anxious to hear.  --Sally 
thoughts on the cover note ? 
I read your note back to Shona, and I understand John's desire to put a reminder in front of people, including commerical staff members, about the need for operating standards.  If this is the best time to put that in writing for Europe, then by all means go forward with that.  If there is an efficient way to reference this effort as an Enron-wide initiative to define and monitor these standards across all locations and all commodities traded, then that would be great.  It simply helps put the London initiative in the context of an Enron-wide effort that we all feel is important.  --Sally Mike Jordan 09/27/2000 02:58 AM 
on the cover note ? Comments in red Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
on the cover note ? I think that it is a great idea to get some press regarding our fundamental operating standards, but I wonder about the most appropriate timing, enough of a global message ( it is a European note )and the means of delivery.  On the means of delivery, I am not sure from your note whether or not I fully understand the intent.  Is there an article to be included in an Enron publication ( yes )and in addition a letter to be sent under John's name (if so, to whom will the letter be sent)?  Or is the letter from John an introduction to be included as a lead in to the article?  ( Yes - apologies if there is confusion ) With regard to a global message , I think that one of the key points around fundamental operating standards are that they are intended to be global in nature, applied to every commodity and every location where we engage in trading activities.  With these operating standards implemented worldwide, we will know as operations professionals that risk is being mitigated and we will be able to ensure Enron top management that there is consistency in operating standards worldwide.  These global standards also should enable Enron to expand its business reach more quickly, with well defined requirements with regard to trading operations.  I am not sure from the article as written that the global nature of this effort comes across. Agreed - but the note was targeted at Europe - would welcome the opportunity to work on this with you and Shona ) Finally, a question regarding timing.  The last I knew after you and Brent drafted this starting point for fundamental operating standards was that this was being circulated (Shona took this to do after Brent's return to Houston) for comments to all business controllers.  I don't believe that we are quite at the point that we can say that all business controllers worldwide have reviewed, understand and have implemented these standards.  And not to belittle the process of creating the standards, the tough part (and the real meat behind this) will be an effective exception report on a global basis against these standards.  My commitment to Rick Causey is that I will have that global report in production by the end of the year.  There is much work to do in defining the content and regularity of the report and even more work to do to identify reliable sources of data for compiling the report.  Shona has commissioned Mike Moscoso to work on this, and I believe that Mike has already been working with James New.  So I question whether or not you want to publish info about fundamental standards that we can not yet report against.  Would a more appropriate time be after the Global Operations Controller meeting in October when we should have worldwide buy-in and commitment to these standards and (hopefully) our first draft of a meaningful exception report?  Can we discuss this - please see separate note from me to Shona Sorry that this response looks so long.  I have been interrupted 20 times while responding, so I hope that it makes sense.  Thanks for sharing this with me.  Since you asked for input, I hope that you don't mind that I gave you some.  --Sally  - Certainly not  - and thanks Mike Jordan 09/26/2000 08:14 AM 
the cover note ? Fernley  / Sally Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ). We are in the final stages of this process  - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? Mike 
This request is approved.  Your request forms that you send still don't provide enough information in layman's terms so that I know what you are asking to be approved.  Are we working on this? 
Greg Carraway is a member of my group.  Since Brad Diebner is no longer in Financial Settlements, I am trying to set up Greg with access to the terminal server so that he can use a laptop from home.  It is part of the inclement weather plan.  I didn't know the approval would go to you, otherwise I would have prompted you for the approval. Thank you, Becky Enron North America Corp. 
I can never tell from these things what they are asking to be approved. Since Gregory's address looks as if he is at Corp., just let me know who he is and what I am being asked to approve.  Please reply with history attached.  Thanks. --Sally 
Below you will find a copy of a request that is awaiting your approval. Please advise us as to your approval or rejection of this request by way of email. I thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. Leola Barnett IRM x3-7965 
I can never tell from these things what they are asking to be approved. Since Gregory's address looks as if he is at Corp., just let me know who he is and what I am being asked to approve.  Please reply with history attached.  Thanks. --Sally 
Below you will find a copy of a request that is awaiting your approval. Please advise us as to your approval or rejection of this request by way of email. I thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. Leola Barnett IRM x3-7965 
This is fine.  --Sally Information Risk Management 09/26/2000 03:43 PM 
Below you will find a copy of a request that is awaiting your approval. Please advise us as to your approval or rejection of this request by way of email. I thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. Leola Barnett IRM x3-7965 
FYI 
Fernley:  I think that you are right about easy access to the standards.  In fact, at the Global Operations Controllers gathering in Houston in October, we are going to roll out a website created for Global Risk Operations.  The global standards will be one of the items included, as well as contact lists for Operations Controllers worldwide, calendars for all Enron offices worldwide, a ""what time is it there if I am here"" page, etc.  I would like for this to be introduced at the offsite as surprise (just a little bang out of the announcement) , so I would appreciate your not sharing this plan widely at this point.  However, I thought that I would let you know so that we would not duplicate any efforts. 
on the cover note ? I think the note is fine. My concern would be access to details of the standards themselves. People will be less inclined to come to you and me, but they may well click on an intranet link to the policies and procedures website for example. For your consideration. Thanks Fernley Mike Jordan 26/09/2000 14:14 
the cover note ? Fernley  / Sally Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ). We are in the final stages of this process  - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? Mike 
thoughts on the cover note ? 
FYI - yes, my response was lengthy! 
on the cover note ? I think that it is a great idea to get some press regarding our fundamental operating standards, but I wonder about the most appropriate timing, enough of a global message and the means of delivery.  On the means of delivery, I am not sure from your note whether or not I fully understand the intent.  Is there an article to be included in an Enron publication and in addition a letter to be sent under John's name (if so, to whom will the letter be sent)?  Or is the letter from John an introduction to be included as a lead in to the article? With regard to a global message, I think that one of the key points around fundamental operating standards are that they are intended to be global in nature, applied to every commodity and every location where we engage in trading activities.  With these operating standards implemented worldwide, we will know as operations professionals that risk is being mitigated and we will be able to ensure Enron top management that there is consistency in operating standards worldwide.  These global standards also should enable Enron to expand its business reach more quickly, with well defined requirements with regard to trading operations.  I am not sure from the article as written that the global nature of this effort comes across. Finally, a question regarding timing.  The last I knew after you and Brent drafted this starting point for fundamental operating standards was that this was being circulated (Shona took this to do after Brent's return to Houston) for comments to all business controllers.  I don't believe that we are quite at the point that we can say that all business controllers worldwide have reviewed, understand and have implemented these standards.  And not to belittle the process of creating the standards, the tough part (and the real meat behind this) will be an effective exception report on a global basis against these standards.  My commitment to Rick Causey is that I will have that global report in production by the end of the year.  There is much work to do in defining the content and regularity of the report and even more work to do to identify reliable sources of data for compiling the report.  Shona has commissioned Mike Moscoso to work on this, and I believe that Mike has already been working with James New.  So I question whether or not you want to publish info about fundamental standards that we can not yet report against.  Would a more appropriate time be after the Global Operations Controller meeting in October when we should have worldwide buy-in and commitment to these standards and (hopefully) our first draft of a meaningful exception report? Sorry that this response looks so long.  I have been interrupted 20 times while responding, so I hope that it makes sense.  Thanks for sharing this with me.  Since you asked for input, I hope that you don't mind that I gave you some.  --Sally Mike Jordan 09/26/2000 08:14 AM 
the cover note ? Fernley  / Sally Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ). We are in the final stages of this process  - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? Mike 
Would you please forward a copy of our current draft of operating standards to Shawn?  Thanks. 
You indicated at the meeting with Rick that you have a set of minimum standards which are being rolling out.  Would you please send me a copy of those for my reference. Thanks! Shawn 
Fernley:  I think that you are right about easy access to the standards.  In fact, at the Global Operations Controllers gathering in Houston in October, we are going to roll out a website created for Global Risk Operations.  The global standards will be one of the items included, as well as contact lists for Operations Controllers worldwide, calendars for all Enron offices worldwide, a ""what time is it there if I am here"" page, etc.  I would like for this to be introduced at the offsite as surprise (just a little bang out of the announcement) , so I would appreciate your not sharing this plan widely at this point.  However, I thought that I would let you know so that we would not duplicate any efforts. 
on the cover note ? I think the note is fine. My concern would be access to details of the standards themselves. People will be less inclined to come to you and me, but they may well click on an intranet link to the policies and procedures website for example. For your consideration. Thanks Fernley Mike Jordan 26/09/2000 14:14 
the cover note ? Fernley  / Sally Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ). We are in the final stages of this process  - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? Mike 
Late Jan sounds great.  Meagan does have a couple of big things on the weekend in January -- National Charity League Senior Presentation (big dance that she and I are committed to help with), the Bearkadette Ball and a winter party for Cotillion.  I believe that these are three weekends in a row, January 6, 13 and 20th.  So the last weekend in January would work well (and I will need a rest from formal affairs!).  Does that work for you?  And do you want to do it on a Saturday or Sunday?  Saturday probably works better for me, just so that I am back in Houston and doing laundry by Sunday afternoon!! ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 09/26/2000 09:46:52 AM 
Hi... Talked to the little mother-to-be.  She said a shower would be grand.  She has some big presentation mid-January.  How does late January sound to you. Should we set a date now?  Am I turning into Mother? Cindy 
Thanks for following up on this. 
This is hilarious!  I am laughing outloud!! ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 12/07/2000 09:41:23 AM 
? Sisters.....this  one made me laugh out loud....more than  once....? Ingredients: 1 cup of water 1 tsp baking soda 1 cup  of sugar 1 tsp salt 1 cup of brown sugar lemon juice 4 large  eggs nuts 1 bottle Vodka 2 cups of dried fruit Sample the vodka  to check quality. Take a large bowl, check the vodka again. To be sure it is  the highest quality, pour one level cup and drink. Repeat. Turn on  the electric mixer. Beat one cup of butter in a large fluffy bowl. Add one  teaspoon of sugar. Beat again. At this point it's best to make sure the vodka is  still OK. Try another cup .... just in case. Turn off the  mixerer. Break 2 leggs and add to the bowl and chuck in the cup of dried  fruit. Pick fruit off floor. Mix on the turner. If the  fried druit gets stuck in the beaterers pry it loose with a sdrewscriver. Sample the vodka to check for tonsisticity. Next,  sift two cups of salt. Or something. Who giveshz a shit. Check the  vodka. Now shift the lemon juice and strain your nuts. Add one  table. Add a spoon of sugar, or somefink. Whatever you can  find. Greash the oven and piss in the fridge. Turn the cake tin  360 degrees and try not to fall over. Don't forget to beat off the  turner. Finally, throw the bowl through the window, finish the vodka and  kick the cat. Fall into bed. CHERRY MISTMAS! Andrew Whitehead School of Civil Engineering University of  Nottingham University Park Nottingham NG7 2RD Tel :- +44 (0)115 9515151 ext.8062 Email :- andrew.whitehead@nottingham.ac.uk web  :- www.nottingham.ac.uk/~evzasw ? 
I think that it is a great idea to get some press regarding our fundamental operating standards, but I wonder about the most appropriate timing, enough of a global message and the means of delivery.  On the means of delivery, I am not sure from your note whether or not I fully understand the intent.  Is there an article to be included in an Enron publication and in addition a letter to be sent under John's name (if so, to whom will the letter be sent)?  Or is the letter from John an introduction to be included as a lead in to the article? With regard to a global message, I think that one of the key points around fundamental operating standards are that they are intended to be global in nature, applied to every commodity and every location where we engage in trading activities.  With these operating standards implemented worldwide, we will know as operations professionals that risk is being mitigated and we will be able to ensure Enron top management that there is consistency in operating standards worldwide.  These global standards also should enable Enron to expand its business reach more quickly, with well defined requirements with regard to trading operations.  I am not sure from the article as written that the global nature of this effort comes across. Finally, a question regarding timing.  The last I knew after you and Brent drafted this starting point for fundamental operating standards was that this was being circulated (Shona took this to do after Brent's return to Houston) for comments to all business controllers.  I don't believe that we are quite at the point that we can say that all business controllers worldwide have reviewed, understand and have implemented these standards.  And not to belittle the process of creating the standards, the tough part (and the real meat behind this) will be an effective exception report on a global basis against these standards.  My commitment to Rick Causey is that I will have that global report in production by the end of the year.  There is much work to do in defining the content and regularity of the report and even more work to do to identify reliable sources of data for compiling the report.  Shona has commissioned Mike Moscoso to work on this, and I believe that Mike has already been working with James New.  So I question whether or not you want to publish info about fundamental standards that we can not yet report against.  Would a more appropriate time be after the Global Operations Controller meeting in October when we should have worldwide buy-in and commitment to these standards and (hopefully) our first draft of a meaningful exception report? Sorry that this response looks so long.  I have been interrupted 20 times while responding, so I hope that it makes sense.  Thanks for sharing this with me.  Since you asked for input, I hope that you don't mind that I gave you some.  --Sally Mike Jordan 09/26/2000 08:14 AM 
the cover note ? Fernley  / Sally Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ). We are in the final stages of this process  - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? Mike 
This employee, and his supervisor, Bob Schorr, do not report in to me. Someone else should be approving this requested access. 
Thanks for your list.  I have talked with Brent and of the three names that you have listed, he wants to include only Cindy Horn. I have thought more about Heidi Mason and Jan-Erland and think that they should be included.  While they do roll into Europe and also have a tie to accounting, they are the individuals in Sydney and Toyko that we are depending on to stress and enforce controls.  Heidi particularly does have active responsibility for risk, confirmations and settlements on a day-to-day basis.  And in addtion to their role reporting in to Europe, we are looking to them to oversee controls for other non-EEL traded commodities in their locations - weather, coal, etc. I will include Fernley on the invitation list, as I had mentioned the meeting to him when I saw him in San Antonio.  He can certainly respectfully decline! Mike Jordan 09/25/2000 10:21 AM 
People I am paying for :- Myself James New - Power, Gas and Credit Mike Wellings - UK Power Coralie Evans - Continental Power Robert Yeo - UK and Continental Gas Paul D'Arcy - Structured Products David Wall - Credit Andrew Cornfield - Metals Risk Manager People who may come from EGM - Fiona, we should get them on same booking if they confirm attendance ( Patti, could you let Fiona know ? ) Cindy Horn Kenny Nicoll Mark Fondren 
Sally Proposed list - of all potential candidates Myself James New - and his lead risk managers Mike Wellings - UK Power Coralie Evans - Continental Power Robert Yeo - UK and Continental Gas Paul D'Arcy - Structured Products David Wall - Credit Tim Poullain-Patterson - Metals Integration Andrew Cornfield - Metals Risk Manager Kevin Rhodes - Metals Controller ( there are in fact two controllers at present Kevin for Financial Trading and Howard Carter for Merchanting ) I would leave Ralph Jaeger of Frankfurt out of the offsite if places are restricted  - He is covered by the mainstream Accounting conferences, but I would have Jan Erland, and Heidi and Tiong Hock from Singapore. I am not sure Fernley would want to be there - but I can ask. On others  - Simon Thurbin of liquids in london should be in Houston and would be a good choice for inclusion. Brent may want his two London controllers of Cindy Horn and Kenny Nicoll to also come Would you invite Kristen to come with( in place of Barry? ). A long list ( and we may want to cut back ) but all these individuals carry the burden of operational risk assessment and management - standardising that process would be an achievement indeed. Mike PS  - Shall we revisit Agenda and discuss who should start preparing presentations - we had thought about engaging RAC, IT etc Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Dates: Sunday, October 22 (late afternoon, early evening kick-off, reception and dinner) Monday, October 23 (all day, with evening event) Tuesday, October 24 (through mid afternoon) Confirmed speakers to date:  Jeff Skilling (Tuesday, October 24 - available 9:30 am to 1:00 pm) Proposed list of attendees (Mike:  let's talk about the scope of this list on Tuesday): ENA Gas - Steve Jackson Leslie Reeves Bob Hall Power - Stacey White Calgary - Peggy Hedstrom EIM Pulp, Paper, Lumber - Brenda Herod EGM General - Brent Price Global Products - Scott Earnest Weather - Todd Hall Financial Products - Sheila Glover ? Kevin Sweeney EEL ? Fernley Dyson Mike Jordan London - James New Frankfort - Ralph Jaeger Metals - Tim Pouillan-Patterson Australia - Heidi Mason Japan - Jan-Erland Beking ESA Scott Mills EBS Barry Pearce EES Wanda Curry ? Global Risk Management Sally Beck Shona Wilson Eugenio Perez Mike Moscoso 
Thanks for looking into the OU/Texas tickets for us.  With the ages of the kids, I think that we will pass on those single tickets.  The kids love our home tradition for the game, and weren't sure that they wanted to give that up. (I have cake pans in the shape of the state of Texas and the state of Oklahoma - one daugther decorates one, and the other decorates the second cake - add some bean dip and chips and it's our own version of a tailgate party!) We were hoping to bring Meagan up to look at OU this fall, with our eye on that last game of the season. However, Klein High School has started the football season very strongly, winning all games to date.  That means that we may be headed for high school playoffs again this year.  Meagan is on the drill team and must be at all games.  Last year, we played right up to Thanksgiving in the playoffs.  So, we have decided to pick a weekend in the spring after drill team contest season is over to make that trip with Meagan. We are interested in caps, shirts, etc. for UT, OU and Texas Tech.  Do you have a list of what is available for those schools? ""Jacobs, Ted K"" <tjacobs@ou.edu> on 09/23/2000 03:07:11 PM 
Thanks for the nice words. I hope Enron will be able to look at some students for summer internships, as I am sure they will be gone by Spring. As far as Texas tickets go, I can come up with 5 singles, but not 5 together or even 3 and 2. Let me know if interested and I will try to get them. Might be able to trade up or something. Let me know what other schools you are talking about and I can find out for you. Again, thank you for taking time out your schedule to come up and be a part of the OU recruiting effort. It has been your support and efforts that we have to thank for Enron coming to OU. Keep me posted on what you work out with HR with regards to summer interns. 
It was good to see you in Norman earlier this week.  As always, I appreciated your attendance at the presentation and at Coach's afterwards. I am sure that it is rewarding for you to see former students such as Jody and Nate participating on the other side of the recruiting table.  You have done a great job in changing and promoting the program. I am pushing Lexi to resolve the question around interview dates for summer interns ASAP.  I have also left Mike McConnell a message to make him aware of the issue.  I should be able to get back with you next week, hopefully with a change in our strategy! If you do become aware of five OU /Texas tickets, please let me know.  We will certainly purchase them, I just made the assumption that all tickets may already be sold. On another note, David has worn his OU shirt to work and has gotten lots of compliments.  He has a number of people that have asked him about school shirts, caps, etc.  Do you have a list of the schools that you can get merchandise for and the types of merchandise that you can get?  Let me know -- we can probably place a few orders through you! 
Invitations have been mailed to all VP's and above for the annual Enron Management Conference to be held at the Hyatt Hill Country in San Antonio November 15-17.  Hopefully, you have received your invitation (more to save the date than to provide any detail at this point).  If you have not received 
It was good to see you in Norman earlier this week.  As always, I appreciated your attendance at the presentation and at Coach's afterwards.  I am sure that it is rewarding for you to see former students such as Jody and Nate participating on the other side of the recruiting table.  You have done a great job in changing and promoting the program. I am pushing Lexi to resolve the question around interview dates for summer interns ASAP.  I have also left Mike McConnell a message to make him aware of the issue.  I should be able to get back with you next week, hopefully with a change in our strategy! If you do become aware of five OU /Texas tickets, please let me know.  We will certainly purchase them, I just made the assumption that all tickets may already be sold. On another note, David has worn his OU shirt to work and has gotten lots of compliments.  He has a number of people that have asked him about school shirts, caps, etc.  Do you have a list of the schools that you can get merchandise for and the types of merchandise that you can get?  Let me know 
Please put this on my calendar.  I don't know if I will make it there, but I would like for it to be on my calendar.  Thanks. 
Yes, he is working on the short list.  I do have to say, however, that I have not had questions from him on any of those names.  I will leave him a voice mail message for an update. Brent A Price 09/22/2000 12:36 PM 
I assume he is already working on the short list you told me about (Scott and Todd included)? 
Brent, I have begun initial interviews this week. I started with Gas Trading Operations and will be moving on to Global Services next week (Shona Wilson, Mary Solmonson, James Scribner, Scott Mills and Sheri Thomas).  I hope to get to your group the week after next.  However, I will be calling next week to set up interviews with both you and your Directors. Everything is progressing according to plan and I still expect  the analysis to be completed by mid November. I hope this helps.  Please call me if you have any questions.  I can be reached at X39437. I look forward to meeting you and your group. Kind Regards, Todd Burke ENA Compensation 
I know that there are a number of things that do not work as we had anticipated in SAP.  I also know that there are several things where we have to change our processes to accomodate differences or gaps in SAP.  We also have significant issues with the timing of certain runs within SAP and a mismatch of that timing with our business processes.  There was a concerted effort kicked off by the SAP team last week to try and identify and resolve issues.  They met with my direct reports.  However, we have to reconvene as we ran out of time to cover all issues!  I have asked Leslie Reeves and Bryce to get back to me on even more detail on this example so that we can fully understand how much of this issue was attributable to human versus system.  I will get back with you as I know more details and as I can share with you our list of first ""hits"" for SAP fixes or enhancements.  Thanks for sharing this with me.  --Sally 
Whew!! Your schedule makes me tired!  I am sure that Brigeda is happy that you are involved in so many activities with her school - and then on the other hand, sometimes you wonder if they notice!  Work sounds crazy for you, but how nice that you will be off from December 21 until the 2nd. I hope that make it over the week before Christmas.  The week is kind of crazy for us, so I am trying to find a time that will work.  Sunday the 17th we are having a dessert party at our house, inviting neighbors, old Huntwick friends, etc.  It is for families, and Meagan and Amanda each included 4 of their friends in the invitiation list, along with their familities.  It will be multi-generational - I hope fun, as it would be a nice tradition to continue.  On Monday, I think that David plans to take Tyler and Amanda to Longview for a visit.  A commitment that Meagan and I have to sort toys at Northwest Assistance Ministries from 12:30 to 4:00 that day has excused us from the trip.  So it may be best for Meagan and me to drive over to Austin after 4:00 on Monday.  We could be back by the time David and company return to Houston on Tuesday afternoon.  Wednesday we have matinee tickets to see A Christmas Carol at the Alley  Theater, sans Tyler.  Thursday I am having all of my girls in NCL over to wrap gifts for the family that we have adopted for Christmas and then we will deliver the presents.  And Friday is Tyler's birthday, with a 102 Dalmation theme planned (cake ordered from RJ Goodies, but nothing else done yet!).  So I really think that our only shot to make it to Austin is for Monday night, which would mean only Meagan and me. I talked with Mom last night and invited Dad and her to Houston for Christmas.  I don't really think that they will come, but if they do, I hope that doesn't mess up your Christmas.  They have only been here for one or two Christmases with us since we have had kids.  I think that Tyler at 3 this year will be particularly enthralled.  And next year they will have 2 grandchildren in Austin, so it just seemed that this could be a good year for them to come.  She said she would think about it, and I told her that I wanted her to know that we would love to have them, but that it was perfectly okay if they decided that they did not want to come. How about Dad playing golf this week?  What a difference!! I am so glad that he is doing better. I hear you about Mom.  I think that a blow-up or some drama is highly predictable, unfortunately.  She seems to do that a lot at special occassions for Cara, doesn't she?  I will certainly help in any way I can.  And I will be very interested in the gosipy details. Happy baking!    I do have to make 5 batches of fudge tonight and tomorrow night so that I can attend a cookie exchange luncheon on Saturday armed with 27 packages of fudge. ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 12/07/2000 09:25:44 AM 
Well, she declined our kind offer, didn't she?  As busy as life is between work and home for me right now, I can't say that it will bother me too much to attend a shower where someone else makes the finger sandwiched and punch!  Do be on the look out for the perfect pack of diaper pins.  I noticed some at a rack at Randall's the other day... (Just kidding!) Hope you all are doing fine.  I was on jury duty three days last week - really interesting, but totally screwed up my schedule at work.  I have been doing double-time to try to catch up, especially since I plan to be off the week of December 18th. 
I have read this series of e:mails but I am not sure that I fully understand the issue.  Did Willie not do his job?  Are there problems with how SAP works?  Are both of these an issue?  Please let me know if we have a far reaching problem with SAP and netting.  Thanks.  --Sally 
I updated that systems matrix recently, in preparation for our much rescheduled meeting with AA on risk controls.  That is on my calendar for Friday morning this week, so I will bring copies with me to that meeting. I have been publishing an ENA operations report monthly since June.  To date, I have been reviewing it with Dave Delainey, fine-tuning each month the types of information and format that he likes.  I will bring you a copy tomorrow and would like your input on content and format as well.  With the recent reorganization, I am working with EGM and EIM to create the same report. After we have mastered that here in Houston over the next month or so, I plan to share the format with London so that all of our wholesale businesses can use the same format. In addition to these monthly operating reports, we are working on a daily report to be operational by the end of the fourth quarter that will track compliance with our fundamental operating standards.  We are in the phase of determining the source of reporting (systematic or manual) and the frequency of reporting (daily, weekly, monthly) for all commodities and locations against the operating standards.  As we get this to a first draft stage, I will share this with you, as well as the timeline for full implementation. --Sally 
is this the latest?  Also, how are we coming on an operational position report?  I know it would be rough but I would like to start producing something sooner rather than later.  Thanks 
Rick - You had asked a while back for a matrix that captures all of the different systems used by commodity, by office and by functional group.  This (draft) version encompasses Houston and London activities.  We will expand this document to include other offices and products in the next few months. Let me know your questions and comments. 
Diana, Here's info you requested.  Per our conversation earlier, please try to arrange someone with experience/knowledge of Jornada device for training for Sally & me both.  Sally is not very technical & will need to be walked thru. If she doesn't learn how to properly use it, she will not use it, if you know what I mean.  Any help you can give me in setting up training w/ someone that will be able to answer our questions is greatly appreciated.  Please have person contact me directly as I keep Sally's calendar.  She will be in training all day Thursday & Friday, so Monday would be the soonest she is available. ID:    sbeck Password:   balc33balc Lotus password:   balc33balc 
This employee and his/her manager, Bob Schorr, do not report in to me.  This approval should be sent to someone else. 
I will take a look at my calendar and let you know when I can come north.  I am heading to the airport in 5 minutes for a flight to Austin to make a presentation at UT tonight, capping off about four weeks with a lot of travel for me.  I will catch my breath on the plan and look at my schedule for the next few weeks and I will let you know. I sat by Sheila Knudsen at the ENA staff meeting on Friday afternoon last week, and asked her if we should now schedule VP reviews.  The VP PRC meeting (much rescheduled) did take place on September 11 and 12.  Sheila said that as of Friday (the 15th) that HR had not received the final results from the PRC, and that we should wait on reviews until we had that in hand.  I will check with HR this week so see if all is finalized, so that we can schedule the review.  I will keep you posted. Peggy Hedstrom 09/20/2000 12:18 PM 
Do you have any tentative dates for coming to Calgary?  For your information, Beth Perlman and Jeff Johnson are now planning to come up on October 2nd - 3rd.   If you aren't able to come up in the next few weeks, can we cover my performance review on the phone?  Since this is my first review at the Vice President level, I would appreciate getting some feedback on my performance before year end (which is fast approaching).  Please let me know your plans. Peggy 
Too late with your spreadsheet.  The instructions that we got from Donna were that I should review the resumes, pass them to Brent for his review, and then on to Causey for his review.  Considering our schedules and the large number of resumes to review, that would have been an impossible task to complete by Thursday at noon.  I received the resumes after lunch on Tuesday, just before leaving for the airport to catch the plane for Oklahoma.  I asked Patti to make a copy of the packet for Brent, and I knew that Rick would not want to take the time to review the resumes without some organization and screening first.  I reviewed as many of the resumes as I could on the plane on the way back to Houston today (all of the liberal arts resumes and about one third of the business resumes) and Brent reviewed them last night after his training class.  We got those to Rick today by noon, as he was leaving the office.  I believe that Rick will review what Brent and I put together and then will pass the resumes along to you.  Since you only e:mailed your spreadsheet this morning after Brent and I had done our reviews, you will have to cross-reference the info on the spreadsheet with the selected resumes. Brent and I would have appreciated some organization and screening of the resumes as well.  I would suggest that in the future that your team should make copies of the resumes for everyone that you would like to have doing the review.  The plan of passing them from one person to another is not practical,  and I should not have had to make the copies for Brent.  If you are going to ask VP's and MD's to help in this process in a very short time frame, then I would suggest that you use their time wisely.  If someone from you team had organized the resumes into three groups by GPA's or majors, that would have given us a good starting point, instead of a jumble of resumes. Two page resumes were not stapled together and there were a number of resumes of MBA's included, which should be considered for Associates interviews, not Analysts interviews.  Please give us organized information to react to, not simply a jumble of data that we have to weed through.  All of us want to participate and to be as involved as possible in the recruiting process, but we need to be able to rely on the Program for some basic administrative and organizational work. I send these suggestions with the intent of constantly bettering the program and with the intent of helping you to succeed in your role, not being critical.  I hope that you will take these suggestions in that light. 
This approval request is incomplete - it does not include the name of this employee's manager.  I do not know the employee, and without the name of the manager I can't possibly approve this.  Please get someone to complete this request. 
As you know, exceeding this limit would require contacting the Enron Board of Directors.  Jeff Skilling is keenly interested in this measurement.  In conversations with Ted Murphy today, Jeff has asked that he receive a daily report from Ted on component V@R.  Ted called me about 3:00 pm today (Houston time) to let me know about this requirement.  Obviously, we want to meet Skilling's request with information that is as timely, accurate and  complete as possible.  Therefore, we were concerned about feeds from London that over the past several weeks have caused one London commodity or another to be excluded from the first run of component V@R.  (Mike:  I assume that you are very familiar with these feed problems from your representative that you send to the daily 8:30 meeting.) I pulled Steve Stock out of a pre-PRC meeting to meet with Ted, Shona, Ramesh and me at 4:00 today.  Realizing that the time was very late in London, we tried to reach you both at home numbers and by cell phone to include you in the meeting.  Since we could not do so, we continued without you given that Skilling will want to see this report daily starting tomorrow. Here is the key fact to know:  It takes 3 hours to run the component V@R calculations, once all inputs have been received and processed.  The Component V@R calculations are kicked off at 6:30 am Houston time, producing an approximate completion time of 9:30 am Houston time.   With this timeframe, our goal would be to have the component V@R report to Jeff by approximately 10:00 am Houston time. Given current calculation times, in order to consistently calc component V@R including all London feeds, London books (UK power, UK gas and Nordic power) will have to be completed, calculated and officialized by 4:00 am Houston time (10:00 am London time).  If this time frame is not met, then component V@R reports for Jeff will be incomplete.  We had hoped to discuss this with you today so that you could work with your operations staff, systems support and traders to insure that you could consistently meet a 10:00 am London requirement for officialized books. The other immediate action to take is to ask Mike to work with David Hardy on what we understand to be an almost-completed task of including UK spread options in V@R calculations using the V@R engine.  Those V@R calculations that are done through Excel calculations are not captured and included in the component V@R calculations.  While there are other commodities that will currently be excluded from component V@R reports, they are deemed to be less material than the UK spread options.  Ramesh felt that it is only a matter of days before this is completed.  Mike, we would like for you to stay on top of this from an operations perspective to insure that this happens. I should note that the firm 10:00 am deadline for officializing books in the UK will only result in producing a report for Jeff by 10:00 am Houston time. We don't know what Jeff's expectation will be regarding timing.  It is probably safe to say that we should be actively looking at process and systems changes that could result in the ability to deliver such a report earlier in the morning. Mike, I will call you during my morning commute on Thursday to see whether or not you have any questions or if there are concerns about consistently 
I am not trying to twist any arms with this question, but is there anything we can do so that Jody can make the presentation at OU?  Since he was the top graduate from the Energy Management Program at OU, it would be great for him to be at the presentation next Tuesday night.  I know that recruiting events can be a drain on staffing, but it is also time well spent.  I do know that Jody is in a role that has real day-to-day commitments, so if there is not a feasible way to have someone calc a book for him I will understand.  I just wanted you to take a look at this.  Thanks. 
I have asked ENA's Compensation team within HR to conduct a compensation study for me for all positions from Manager level through Vice President. This analysis will include employees who are dedicated to ENA, EIM and EGM. It had been the plan to complete our compensation analysis by focusing on the Manager level and above, following the market analysis for Senior Specialists and below that was completed by Yvonne Land.  I learned recently that Yvonne has left the Company and that she had not begun the analysis for Managers and above. Todd Burke, who recently joined Enron, will be conducting the market survey and compensation analysis.  I met with Todd recently.  He has had wonderful experience with Towers Perin and Watson Wyatt, and I feel that we are fortunate to have him devoted to this project.  Please give sufficient thought and attention to requests from Todd.  The quality and timeliness of your responses will directly impact the quality and timeliness of the analysis that I will receive from Todd.  I think that you should each have a vested interest in the success of this project! Todd also plans to resurvey market information for Senior Specialists and below so that his view of compensation will be complete and timely for all of Energy Operations.  Since we recently took action on compensation levels for key players at the Senior Specialist level and below, I would not anticipate further adjustments for those levels as a result of Todd's review. You should receive a message from Todd in the next day or so in which he will detail steps in the compensation analysis and what your role will be. 
I will be in San Antonio attending an offsite meeting hosted by Rick Causey on Wednesday and Thursday, September 13 through 15.  I will leave the offsite meeting before its conclusion on Friday, so that I can attend a lunch meeting with Philippe Bibi, Rick Buy, Ted Murphy and Bill Bradford to discuss common needs around risk systems.  I will be in the office the afternoon of September 15. Patti Thompson, my assistant (x39106), will have telephone numbers where I can be reached.  Key contacts while I am out are listed below: Natural Gas Operations  Steve Jackson   x37070 Bob Hall   x36956 Leslie Reeves  x37962 Power Operations   Stacey White  x31870 Leslie Reeves  x37962 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 
Please print and start a file for me for year-end PRC 2000. Yikes!! Thanks. 
I am not aware of an Enron-wide issue, but it would seem strange that two such instances occurred within your group.  You may want to contact someone in security to give them the details so that they can investigate. Mary Solmonson 09/11/2000 05:07 PM 
Do you know if there is an Enron-wide credit identity theft problem ?  This is the second one within Global in a month. 
Hi Mary, One other thing I wanted to mention to you today, it looks like someone is trying to use my social security number.  Like Mary Gosnell, I've been alerted by a financial institution on an attempt made.  Coincidently, the application says I work for the Herman Hospital which is the same for Mary G, so it looks like there is an Enron element connecting the two of cases together.  I've called the director of security and Enron's in-house police officer (who works from the Enron building M/W/F).  Security is looking into churn requests and the implementation of the new SAP system to see if there's a leak. Joel had also overheard someone discussing this same subject in the elevator a few weeks past, so it doesn't look like it's isolated to Global Data Management. Fortunately for me, nothing has come from the attempts - given I'm new to the country and have no established credit rating....I have taken the appropriate action so I don't think this will be too big of an issue. Thanks, Avril 
Yes, Mary Solmonson from Energy Operations has volunteered to host a student in the Job Shadowing program.  Mary may have one of her directors host the student.  Please use Mary Solmonson as the primary contact for this program. Her extension is 36079.  Thanks. Susan Skarness 09/12/2000 02:45 PM 
Following the initial message about Junior Achievement in March 2000, each of you responded that your department was willing to participate in the Job Shadowing program.  We want to ensure that you are still able to participate.  When you have a moment, please advise. Thank you. Susan 
Our thanks to those of you who have already responded regarding the Junior Achievement Job Shadowing program.  If you have already replied, it is not necessary to do so again, however, there are still a number of you who have not responded and we look forward to hearing from you.  Please review the memo below and respond to Nicki Daw or Susan Skarness ASAP. Your participation is greatly appreciated.  Thank you. Mark Frevert & Cliff Baxter ________________________________________________________ Cliff Baxter 08/22/2000 11:07 AM 
Some of you were contacted earlier this year by Cliff Baxter, Enron's representative on the Junior Achievement Board of Directors, regarding participation in Enron's Junior Achievement program.  Since so many changes have occurred within ENA since that time, we are renewing our request and broadening it to reach more departments. One of the programs that we wish to support through Junior Achievement is Job Shadowing.  This program's objectives are to demonstrate why a sound education, interpersonal skills, and a strong work ethic are needed to succeed in the work place.  A successful Job Shadowing program requires your department's commitment and participation. The Job Shadowing program consists of the following: 9:00 - 10:30 AM  Welcome, Company Overview, Video, and Tour 10:30 - 12:00 N  Job Shadow Experience with Enron Employees and/or Departments 12:00 - 1:00 PM  Lunch for Students with Mentors and Closing Comments Enron has agreed to accept 16 high school juniors and seniors on the second Wednesday of each month from October 2000 through April 2001.  We need your assistance in hosting students within your department during the 10:30 AM - 12:00 Noon period.   Students may be either paired up one-on-one with employees or may remain in groups of 2-4.  Employees participating in Job Shadowing will also be invited to join their students for a quick lunch and closing comments.  If enough departments participate, it is possible that each department may only be needed on a quarterly basis. Although we have identified two individuals to provide the company overview and tour, we are also accepting additional volunteers in this area.  Please advise if anyone in your department is interested in assisting. Please provide the following information to Nicki Daw or Susan Skarness by August 30, 2000. Department Name: Job Shadowing Contact Name: Number of Students: Individual to Assist With Tours: We appreciate your consideration and participation in promoting Junior Achievement and Enron. Cliff Baxter and Mark Frevert 
Who are these guys and should someone from our group meet with them? 
Hi, With the visit approaching by Al Pennisi and Craig Young this Wed.Sep 13 through Fri. Sep.15, please let me know if you have an interest in visiting with them.  I will be helping to facilitate their meetings. If you do have an interest, please let me know which times are most convenient, in order of preference. Have a pleasant week, Thanks David 3-3528 
Alfred Pennisi and myself will arrive Houston Wed 9/13 and leave Friday. Al Pennisi is in charge of operations for NY futures/swaps and I head up the group. Our objective is to meet with each of you or anyone else that can help us provide/expand internal and external client services for regulated and nonregulated futures and forwards. We are a U.S. regulated commission house purchased by Enron Europe through MG London/Enron Trading Services Inc. Clearing futures exchanges Combined margin and cash management efficiencies Broker service across all commodities/financial Our current client base--- commercial and funds Meeting desk heads who trade futures Integrating Enron Net Works/Enron On Line into services and clients Enron documentation/access for web based non metal Enron documentation for swaps/OTC non metal Credit issues --- outside of Metals Regulation and Govt relations Fund or Alternative Investment opportunities ---  CTA/CPO Cross origination opportunities with our clients Regards Craig Young 800-932-2343 212-715-2342 917-860-1786 520 Madison Ave 28th Floor New York, NY 10022 
Great job on discussing status and next steps with the group this afternoon on OPM.  The presentation and your comments were direct and concise.  And your delivery of the information was very well done -- you were poised, organized, prepared and confident.  It was an effective and informative presentation to the group. 
I was out of town last week doing some recruiting, so I am just reading your e:mail today.  I have passed this along to Lisa Cousino and she should be getting back to you. Enron Capital & Trade Resources Canada Corp. 
Well, she declined our kind offer, didn't she?  As busy as life is between work and home for me right now, I can't say that it will bother me too much to attend a shower where someone else makes the finger sandwiched and punch! Do be on the look out for the perfect pack of diaper pins.  I noticed some at a rack at Randall's the other day... (Just kidding!) Hope you all are doing fine.  I was on jury duty three days last week - really interesting, but totally screwed up my schedule at work.  I have been doing double-time to try to catch up, especially since I plan to be off the 
This came in while I was in Austin last week, so I am just reading it today. Any thoughts on this one?  --Sally 
Dates: Sunday, October 22 (late afternoon, early evening kick-off, reception and dinner) Monday, October 23 (all day, with evening event) Tuesday, October 24 (through mid afternoon) Confirmed speakers to date:  Jeff Skilling (Tuesday, October 24 - available 9:30 am to 1:00 pm) Proposed list of attendees (Mike:  let's talk about the scope of this list on Tuesday): ENA Gas - Steve Jackson Leslie Reeves Bob Hall Power - Stacey White Calgary - Peggy Hedstrom EIM Pulp, Paper, Lumber - Brenda Herod EGM General - Brent Price Global Products - Scott Earnest Weather - Todd Hall Financial Products - Sheila Glover ? Kevin Sweeney EEL ? Fernley Dyson Mike Jordan London - James New Frankfort - Ralph Jaeger Metals - Tim Pouillan-Patterson Australia - Heidi Mason Japan - Jan-Erland Beking ESA Scott Mills EBS Barry Pearce EES Wanda Curry ? Global Risk Management Sally Beck Shona Wilson Eugenio Perez 
We will need this, so I am sending it to you as well.  --sally 
Hi  Sally - Here is the IP Address you requested, to be used with your AirCard(s). Sally Beck -   EID# 00-A0-D5-01-33-45     IP Address: 166.149.3.64 **A Change control request was submitted today, cards should be active by tomorrow afternoon. Thank You ! Albernita Travis Enron - I.T. Sourcing & Procurement (713) 345-6255 
Does this make sense to you?  Seems like they may have the wrong person.  Can you follow up?  Thanks. 
Please set up a 30 minute meeting for me with Dave.  Thanks.=20 
You sound extremely busy!  Thanks for your prompt response.  I will be=20 available on either the 19th or 20th.  Please have Patti respond via e-mail= =20 with our meeting details. Regards, David =20 Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.  
The week of September 11 is not a great week for me.  I am out of the offic= e=20 from Tuesday at noon through Friday afternoon, so my Monday and Tuesday=20 morning are already booked!  I checked to see if there was anything that I= =20 could bump off the schedule for Monday, but I am doing several performance= =20 reviews and have Richard Sage here from London to go over several things. = =20 The next week, I am at a Communications training session on Monday, Septemb= er=20 18 and then will be in a V@R class on Thursday and Friday, September 21 and= =20 22.  Let's try for Tuesday or Wednesday that week, the 19th or 20th.  I hav= e=20 Patti checking on some travel details for me.  I have to make a presentatio= n=20 for recruiting in Austin on Wednesday late afternoon or evening.  Let me kn= ow=20 what works for you.  --Sally=20 David Mally 09/06/2000 08:24 PM 
Since our meeting a few weeks ago I have had time to reflect on our=20 discussions on the explosive growth within the ENA business sectors.   I am= =20 in the process of narrowing down my options and plan to make a decision=20 within the next few weeks.  In reviewing my skill sets and how they align t= o=20 ENA=01,s businesses, I feel I could contribute to your teams growth and=20 success. =20 I met with Jeff McMahon and Louise Kitchen and it appears that their=20 businesses are experiencing new or continued growth which will require seni= or=20 operational management support and guidance.  I would like to meet with you= =20 and discuss these businesses from your perspective, as well as any other=20 business sector you feel my skills would align. Please let me know your availability during the week of September 11th to= =20 discuss the points noted above. Regards, David 
Thanks for you message.  I am glad to know that you like what you see in the office to date.  I am planning a trip to Chicago soon, so I will look forward 
It was good to see you last week, too.  That was a big group, and there were many people that I just passed in the halls!  I would love to participate, but I will be out of town on September 14.  Rick Causey is hosting an offsite meeting from Septemer 13-15 in San Antonio.  Thanks for thinking of me. --Sally Jo Ann Hill@ENRON 09/06/2000 10:50 PM 
Sally - it was great seeing you last week at the ASE in Dallas.  I'm sorry we didn't have the opportunity to work together in any of the groups.  As you may know,  I have just completed the SAP HR Implementation Project and my current role, working for Andrea Yowman, is to maximize our investment in SAP HR. To that end, next Thursday, 9/14, two people from SAP will be here to interview non-HR managers on a new project as described below.  You have been identified as an excellent resource to participate in this effort, and I would appreciate it if you would be able to spend 1/2 hour with this team and have your admin spend another hour with them as well -- times noted below. Please let me know if you are available and willing to participate in this initiative.  It is the beginning of our ongoing relationship with SAP to develop what Enron needs, and your input is considered invaluable to this process.  Please respond with your availability at the times noted below and I will prepare a final agenda and itinerary early next week. Thanks for your consideration to participate in this effort.  If you have any questions or need further information, please do not hesitate to call me at 3-0363. Thanks. Jo Ann Proposed agenda We would like to interview managers and their administrators. 9:30 - 10:00 SAP Team interviews/observes manager#1 10:00 - 11:00 SAP Team interviews/observes admin assistant of manager#1 1:00 -  1:30 SAP Team interviews/observes manager#2 1:30 -  2:30 SAP Team interviews/observes admin assistant of manager#2 2:30 -  3:00 SAP Team interviews/observes manager#3 3:00 -  4:00 SAP Team interviews/observes admin assistant of manager#3 What is this project? SAP is developing new software for managers that will be integrated with the Workplace. It will be flexible and powerful enough to support managers at all levels and in all industries. This project is supported directly by the HR Desktop Manager group and has been endorsed by top managers throughout SAP in the U.S. and Germany. SAP has learned that to produce great software products we have to get close to our end users. To do that, we need your help. Our goal is to visit eight SAP customers in the U.S. Enron is one of the eight companies we would like to visit. Who do we want to interview and observe? In a one-day visit, we want to observe and interview three types of managers. * High-level manager, involved in strategic planning, overall budget responsibilities, strategic direction. The high-level manager tends to delegate most of his daily and weekly activities to subordinates. * Operational manager, involved in running a large department or small subsidiary. Often reports to the high-level manager. Has budget and personnel responsibility for the department or subsidiary. May also have product-planning responsibilities. * Group manager, primarily focused on a business activity such as accounts payable manager, line manager, or production planner; but also involved in managing a small group. Often has hands-on personnel and lower-level budget responsibilities. Concerned with the day-to-day business. What can you expect during a site visit? We have found that the most efficient way to organize our interviews is to meet with a contact person in your company (that would be me) who will then escort us to our interviews. This allows our team to introduce themselves and explain their objectives.  Our interviews are conducted at the managers' workstations where our team will spend about 1/2 hour observing the manager in his/her daily work and asking questions.  We will then spend the next hour with his/her administrative assistant. Interviewees do not have to prepare anything. We prefer to interview people where they work because often the work environment can give us a lot of insights about what managers need from a software product. We ask people to be completely honest and forthcoming with us. We treat all sensitive information with utmost confidentiality. There will be two teams from SAP meeting with a total of 6 managers and administrative assistants from various areas in various business units. 
Sheri Thomas (x36557), one of my direct reports, has responsibility for the call center that supports EnronOnline.   There is also a call center for Clickpaper.com.  Sheri will know the name of the person who is heading that effort as well.  I am sure that it would be interesting to compare notes on their efforts and yours. Welcome to Enron.  It was nice to meet you last week.  --Sally Mary Sloan@ENRON 09/07/2000 09:48 AM 
Sally, Hi.  I am following up from our conversation during the ASE last week regarding Call Center/Resolution Center contacts within Enron.  As we discussed, I recently moved into the Customer Service Solution Manager role within the ISC.  I would appreciate any information (names) that you could provide to assist me in coordinating our efforts with those in existence within Enron. Thank you, Mary 
The week of September 11 is not a great week for me.  I am out of the offic= e=20 from Tuesday at noon through Friday afternoon, so my Monday and Tuesday=20 morning are already booked!  I checked to see if there was anything that I= =20 could bump off the schedule for Monday, but I am doing several performance= =20 reviews and have Richard Sage here from London to go over several things. = =20 The next week, I am at a Communications training session on Monday, Septemb= er=20 18 and then will be in a V@R class on Thursday and Friday, September 21 and= =20 22.  Let's try for Tuesday or Wednesday that week, the 19th or 20th.  I hav= e=20 Patti checking on some travel details for me.  I have to make a presentatio= n=20 for recruiting in Austin on Wednesday late afternoon or evening.  Let me kn= ow=20 what works for you.  --Sally=20 David Mally 09/06/2000 08:24 PM 
Since our meeting a few weeks ago I have had time to reflect on our=20 discussions on the explosive growth within the ENA business sectors.   I am= =20 in the process of narrowing down my options and plan to make a decision=20 within the next few weeks.  In reviewing my skill sets and how they align t= o=20 ENA=01,s businesses, I feel I could contribute to your teams growth and=20 success. =20 I met with Jeff McMahon and Louise Kitchen and it appears that their=20 businesses are experiencing new or continued growth which will require seni= or=20 operational management support and guidance.  I would like to meet with you= =20 and discuss these businesses from your perspective, as well as any other=20 business sector you feel my skills would align. Please let me know your availability during the week of September 11th to= =20 discuss the points noted above. Regards, David 
January 27th and February 24th sound good.  Meagan has a big dance on Jan. 27th, and I need to be here to help with prep and to take pictures.  February 17th is our anniversary (22nd!!), so that is probably not a good date either.  So if you can make one of the other two dates work, I would love to come.  Just keep me posted. ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 12/05/2000 04:35:38 PM 
Hi, Sal!    I've been meaning to call you for several days - but it's been a bit of a madhouse, so I thought I might fire off an e-mail: I don't know if you've talked with Cindy in the past few days - but, if it's okay with you, I'd like to decline your very sweet offer of having a baby shower.   Here's the deal:  A couple of friends had already offered to do one - and I'm having trouble coming up with a vibrant mix of people to split amongst two showers. This seems to be a good decision for Cindy, too, since may be a bit short of cash and energy right now. However, I would LOVE for you to come to the one shower - if it's convenient for you.  I would love for you to meet my friends, and for them to meet you! If it doesn't work for you, I'll certainly understand - especially since you may want to come again when baby is born.  But, if you'd like to consider coming, I'd like to know your schedule.  We're talking about a weekend lunch or afternoon thing I think.   In January or February, I""m available on the following weekends: Jan. 20 Jan. 27 Feb. 17 Feb. 24. I think going any later than this might be cutting it close!    What I need from you is to know which of these weekends you might be available.   The ""shower planners"" are getting eager to plan.  THANKS! -cara Cara White Community Development Coordinator USTA Texas Section 1-888-883-6388 cWhite@texas.usta.com 
I already have a meeting scheduled for Friday from 2:00 to 2:30.  I will join you in the facilitator training as soon as that meeting concludes--it may not last a full 30 minutes.  In case I can not make the meeting, I have printed 
I would like to participate in this focus group, however, I will be returning from Austin on Friday morning following the Enron scholarship dinner the night before.  I am scheduled to land at Hobby at 8:45 am.  It is unlikely that I will be in the Enron Building before about 9:15, and I am scheduled to go into a meeting at 9:30 that involves a number of players and would be difficult to reschedule.  If your responses from participants for the Friday session is thin, and you schedule another time, please let me know. I have been out of the office on business for the last several days (recruiting at UT yesterday) and returned mid-morning today to a full schedule.  I am just now reading your e:mail and therefore could not respond by noon today as you had asked.  --Sally Charlene Jackson@ENRON 08/31/2000 11:49 AM Sent by: Karen Davis@ENRON 
Sally, The Associate & Analyst Programs are conducting Focus Group Sessions to gather feedback regarding the Mid-Year 2000 PRC Process.  You have been identified as a participant in the PRC Representative session. Organizational Development Consultants from Corporate Human Resources will facilitate the sessions.  We encourage your participation and welcome your feedback as we prepare for the year-end performance assessment process.  The logistics are as follows: Friday, September 8, 2000 9:00am - 10:30am Location - EB32C2 Please RSVP to Constance Charles at 3-5614 or by email no later than Wednesday, September 6th at 12:00 noon.  Refreshments will be provided. I look forward to receiving your feedback. Thank you, Charlene Jackson 
Thanks for the resume.  I have been out of town the last several business days, so I am just now catching up on e:mails.  David told me that he ran into you at lunch.  Small world... How are things going for you?  I hope that this was a good move for you. 
October 20th sounds great -- we will reserve the guest room for you! SueW2@aol.com on 08/30/2000 04:09:10 PM 
Dear Sally, Hope you had a good trip to Dallas, although it was a bit interrupted with you trip back to Houston for Meagan's Open House.  Dad and I would like be with you all on Friday the 20th of October.  I believe that may have been the game we attended last year too.  We have meetings, the other two dates, so if that still works for you we will plan on that date.  It also gives Dad a bit more time to hopefully get his voice.  He returns to ""DR"" Bob Raley, week after next for the results of all the testing he did this week. Glad you will be over on Tuesday-we will look forward to seeing you then and glad you will have time for a visit after lunch tool. Love, Sue 
Please print all attachments for me.  Thanks. 
As requested by Shona, attached is a blank SOAP form, a completed SOAP form for your review and a simple presentation on how the SOAP process operates. Hope you find it useful. Please come back to me if you need any more info. Anthony 
Could you get this out to the people below - thanks 
I was able to get into the application this time.  I could see the request for Shona on the screen and I clicked ""Approval"".  The status did not change from pending and there was no pop up on the screen that indicated that the request was processed.  So I do not know if this worked. ARSystem@ect.enron.com on 09/01/2000 03:12:01 PM 
Please review and act upon this request. You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000002257&Email =sally.beck@enron.com to approve the req Request ID          : 000000000002257 Request Create Date : 9/1/00 3:10:58 PM Requested For       : shona.wilson@enron.com Resource Name       : Visio Professional Resource Type       : Applications 
Please set up a meeting with Steve and Beth as soon as we can.  I believe that Beth is out sick at the present. 
I heard today that Curtis Smith has resigned.  I am sure that both ot you know that Curtis and Jeremy Wong were viewed by users as critical resources for ERMS support.  Even at a stand still, my team had great concern over the rumored loss of Curtis and/or Jeremy.  And with the assumption that Sitara will not go forward for valuation, then ERMS really has become repositioned as one of our key, strategic systems.  There is much to do to ""catch up"", if you will, with changes and enhancements that were put on hold for several years during the Sitara development stage.  And our business continues to grow and change rapidly, requiring responsive enhancements on an on-going basis. I would like to get together to discuss the staffing plan for support of ERMS as soon as possible.   We need to understand how day-to-day production support will be managed and how development work will be effectively handled. I will ask my assistant to set up a meeting as soon as possible. 
I heard today that Curtis Smith has resigned.  I am sure that both ot you know that Curtis and Jeremy Wong were viewed by users as critical resources for ERMS support.  Even at a stand still, my team had great concern over the rumored loss of Curtis and/or Jeremy.  And with the assumption that Sitara will not go forward for valuation, then ERMS really has become repositioned as one of our key, strategic systems.  There is much to do to ""catch up"", if you will, with changes and enhancements that were put on hold for several years during the Sitara development stage.  And our business continues to grow and change rapidly, requiring responsive enhancements on an on-going basis. I would like to get together to discuss the staffing plan for support of ERMS as soon as possible.   We need to understand how day-to-day production support will be managed and how development work will be effectively handled. 
Here are the home games when Meagan will be dancing in the half-time routine: Friday, September 15  7:00 pm Saturday, October 14  7:00 pm Friday, October 20  7:00 pm  (homecoming) There is a chance that she could be added to two other home games if alternates are needed.  Nothing definitive on that, of course.  She did get put into a routine last year as an alternate, but you never know. We would love for you to come for a visit this fall, and it would be fun if it would work around one of these games.  I have also given this schedule to Cindy, as she and Brigeda were interested in making it to a game. I am headed to Dallas early tomorrow morning.  Patti has sent you a copy of 
I'm trying again! 
I think that we sent this to the wrong e:mail address at first... 
Itinerary for Sally Beck ASE Offsite Dallas, TX August 29-31, 2000 Tuesday, Aug 29  Continental Flt. CO 701 (Seat 02E) =20 6:45 am Depart Houston-IAH 7:46 am Arrive DFW Int=01,l Training Facility  DesignShop Cap Gemini Ernst & Young (CGEY) Accelerated Solution Environment (ASE) One Panorama Center 7701 Las Colinas Ridge Irving, TX 75063 Phone:  214-303-7700 Fax:  214-303-7643 Schedule:   Tuesday =01) Wednesday:  9:00 AM =01) 7:00 PM Thursday: 9:00 AM =01) 5:00 PM Hotel:    Sumner Suites 5455 Green Park Drive (off of Hwy 114) Irving, TX  75038 Phone:  972-550-7400 Fax:  972-550-7252 Confirmation #: 18563 =20 =20 Thursday, Aug 31 Continental Flt. CO  (Seat 03A) 3:25 pm Depart DFW Int=01,l 4:35 pm Arrive Houston - IAH 
I think that we sent this to the wrong e:mail address at first... 
Itinerary for Sally Beck ASE Offsite Dallas, TX August 29-31, 2000 Tuesday, Aug 29  Continental Flt. CO 701 (Seat 02E) =20 6:45 am Depart Houston-IAH 7:46 am Arrive DFW Int=01,l Training Facility  DesignShop Cap Gemini Ernst & Young (CGEY) Accelerated Solution Environment (ASE) One Panorama Center 7701 Las Colinas Ridge Irving, TX 75063 Phone:  214-303-7700 Fax:  214-303-7643 Schedule:   Tuesday =01) Wednesday:  9:00 AM =01) 7:00 PM Thursday: 9:00 AM =01) 5:00 PM Hotel:    Sumner Suites 5455 Green Park Drive (off of Hwy 114) Irving, TX  75038 Phone:  972-550-7400 Fax:  972-550-7252 Confirmation #: 18563 =20 =20 Thursday, Aug 31 Continental Flt. CO  (Seat 03A) 3:25 pm Depart DFW Int=01,l 4:35 pm Arrive Houston - IAH 
Great idea -- hopefully we can make that happen.  These days with Mom and Dad, I have asked Patti to copy you, Cindy and them on my travel plans.  That way all of you will have numbers where I can be reached if something were to come up.  Hopefully, never needed! Have a great time in New York later this week.  I sent you a newspaper article in the mail today, that you may get before you leave. ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 08/28/2000 05:39:46 PM 
Hey, Sal - just got your itinerary from Patty.  Sometime, just to be crazy, we should try to travel to the same place at the same time - and we could go out at night together!     -Cara Cara White Community Development Coordinator USTA Texas Section. 1-888-883-6388 cWhite@texas.usta.com 
I will be in Dallas from Tuesday, August 29 through Thursday, August 31 at an offsite session hosted by Rick Causey to review the SAP implementation and next steps.  The linkage of Unify and our Global Databases to SAP is a critical one, and decisions around next steps can impact these operating systems and our processes.  Therefore, Rick has asked that I attend.  Patti Thompson, my assistant (x39106), has telephone numbers where I can be reached if needed.  In my absence, please contact the following persons in Houston with questions.  Peggy Hedstrom is the appropriate contact in Calgary. Natural Gas Operations  Steve Jackson   x37070 Power Operations   Stacey White  x31870 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 MPR      David Maxwell  x36983 I will be back in the office on Friday, September 1. 
I thought that you might want to know that Randy Gay's wife passed away on Friday evening.  Randy is the Manager of the West Desk Gas Logistics group. His wife had been on a liver transplant list for some time and had been moved up on the list several weeks ago as her condition became more severe. Unfortunately, she developed complications during the last two weeks which resulted in her being removed from the transplant list.  Randy has a four year-old daughter. Several of us will be attending the funeral today.  Over the past several weeks within ENA, we have raised funds for playground equipment to complete a fund raising effort that Randy's wife had headed for their civic association.  Through donations from ENA employees, the original goal for the 
Have you had a chance to talk with Dave B. on any of this?  It might be helpful for you to put a call in to Tom Martin today to give him your phone number and to let him know that you are working closely with Dave and that you are available for any questions.  Nothing may come up, but I think that Tom would feel better with this gesture.  Probably wouldn't hurt to log the same call or e:mail in to the rest of the guys on the list.  That will give all of them a feeling of continuity with regard to information from Dave on this project.  Do you have contact information for Brenda?  If not, I would get that from Yvette Convey, her assistant.  She is making the rounds with Patrick Conner and the corporate development team, doing site visits on two additional paper mills that we may purchase. Thanks.  --Sally 
I have let Lexi know that I have a conflict with this meeting time -- I will be doing a business review meeting with Jeff Skilling on global risk management operations at 10:00 on September 7th.  I just wanted you to know that I continue to be committed to the recruiting effort at OU.  I have asked Lexi to update me on the meeting.  --Sally 
I can't make 10:00 on September 7th.  I have a business review meeting scheduled with Jeff Skilling at that time.  FYI:  Bob Klein has resigned from the company effective August 31.  Let me know what I miss in the meeting. Thanks.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
If needed in reviewing the V@R calculations, the following persons have been identified as contacts for questions over the weekend: Natural Gas  Jeff Gossett   Home:  281-358-7546 (Kingwood # - may be long distance) Power   Jenny Latham  Home:  713-977-4904 Cell:      713-443-5367 Global Products  Scott Earnest  Home:  713-436-1102 Cell:     713-825-5470 Other    Mike Moscoso  Cell:       713-825-0543 Sally Beck    Home:   281-370-8568 Cell 1:    713-417-1591 Cell 2:    713-299-1436 
I will be at the presentation.  I can not make a faculty lunch that day -- it's my mother's birthday and she lives in Austin, so I have already committed to lunch with her.  Just let me know the details on how soon you would like for me to arrive at the Alumni Center, and if there is anything else that I can do.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Let's let her float in that vision for a while... ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/25/2000 12:30:04 PM 
Dates:  I think Brigeda probably gets out a week later than your girls--don't mind pulling her out early is that will work best. Cara and Chris have a wedding to attend on St. John's in June.  She thinks she, Chris and baby will go.  Shall we give her that reality check now or later? 
It is good to be getting feedback on these standards.  After you have received all responses, I will be curious as to the number and nature of changes suggested.  I think for this to be powerful, we will need to expect all commodities and all locations to meet common standards.  I will reserve judgement on that however, pending your assessment once you have gotten all responses. 
We have reviewed the proposed Global Standards and would like to propose two changes for the Calgary office: Function:    Deal Confirmation Standard:  Brokered deals confirmed within 24 hours (versus the proposed same day) Function:    Deal Confirmation Standard:  Deliver confirmation within 48 hours (versus the proposed 24 hours) In order for us to meet the originally proposed standards, we would either require additional staffing or a reduction of the review process for our transactions. Let me know if you have any questions or require additional clarification.  I can be reached at ext. 6753. Peggy 
Not too mountainous, but I am sure that would be fun.  It's kind of hard to fly to Bermuda from Texas.  Easy from New York, but not that much traffic between Houston/Austin and there.  A few years ago when we went with David's family to Yellowstone, we were able to get a great deal through Continental through their group rate department. That works when you travel with a group of 10 or more, all on the same itinerary.  I think that our round trip from Salt Lake to Houston was $235 each.  Hopefully we could arrange something like that.   If airfare is more like $1,000 between here and Bermuda, that could be tough. Should we pin them down on an exact location, maybe have them pick two or three and rank them?  Then we could check on accomodations, airfare, deals, etc. to see what would be most feasible.  Or should we research a few places and present those choices for them to consider?  What do you think?  Seems like there will be 13 of us, counting baby White/Lowrimore.  And what do you and Cara envision -- a weekend, a few days, a week?  Our kids will get out of school on Friday, May 25.  The 2nd of June is that following Saturday. We are having a great year here at Enron, especially in the business unit that I am in.  Hopefully, that translates to really great bonuses in early February.  I hope to be in a position to fund airfare and hotel for everyone. ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/25/2000 10:28:04 AM 
Just talked to Cara who talked to Mom about the anniversary trip--Cara thinks she wants Bermuda.... 
No manager is listed below on this request and I don't know the employee. The manager blank must be completed for me to be able to address these. Without that, I can't possibly tell what group this person is working in and whether or not it makes sense to grant the system access.  Please return this to me for my approval when complete. 
FYI - I responded to Sharron. 
RSVP:  Yes, I will attend.  I will arrive in San Antonio in time for the dinner on Tuesday evening.  Count me out for golf on Wednesday - I don't think they would want me to play! Breakout Sessions:  SAP Reporting Issues Analyst/Associates Program (I will be glad to participate in any of the sessions, if there are needs to move anyone around) Top 4 Objectives for Accounting Group:  Streamline close process (from a Non-Accountant!!)     Implement data warehouse for flexible reporting Increase visible participation in Analyst and Associate recruiting and          rotations Asssure efficient service from COE (or its replacement), providing timely, creative solutions and an extremely high degree of excellence Dietary/Special Needs:    Something chocolate for dessert!!! 
RSVP:  Yes, I will attend.  I will arrive in San Antonio in time for the dinner on Tuesday evening.  Count me out for golf on Wednesday - I don't think they would want me to play! Breakout Sessions:  SAP Reporting Issues Analyst/Associates Program (I will be glad to participate in any of the sessions, if there are needs to move anyone around) Top 4 Objectives for Accounting Group:  Streamline close process (from a Non-Accountant!!)     Implement data warehouse for flexible reporting Increase visible participation in Analyst and Associate recruiting and          rotations Asssure efficient service from COE (or its replacement), providing timely, creative solutions and an extremely high degree of excellence 
In cleaning up e:mails, I can across this one from Sheila.  Is this one of the corrections that was made to the June information?  Any update on July? Thanks. 
Thanks for letting us know about Blake.  I just tried to reach him and left a 
The Enron-wide PRC meeting to review the mid-year performance for all Vice Presidents has been rescheduled several times.  Currently, this meeting is set for September 11 and 12.  Per David Oxley, performance reviews for Vice Presidents should be conducted after this PRC process is completed.  Assuming that the meeting takes place as now planned in September, I will schedule your reviews sometime after September 12.  (Bob, I will assume that your review will be given by Rock, but I will keep you informed on this process along with Peggy and Brent.) On another note, Enron hosts an annual management conference each year for Vice President level and above.  You should all receive invitations to this event.  In recent years, it has been held in San Antonio.  I do not know the location for this year, but I do have the dates for you to hold on your calendars:  November 15-17. 
Thanks for your comprehensive note on your plans for middle and back office in Japan.  I have done a quick review, and I agree with your thought processes.  I also agree that being able to leverage trading operations personnel and experience in Sydney, with lower wages, makes a lot of sense. While distance is great, the small time zone difference makes this a good option. I want to take a little more time to review this in more detail.  After several months of schedules that have been too full, I have initiated a practice of holding one day a week open for work at my desk, with no meetings.  That day is Friday this week, so I have put a review of your document on the list for more careful review on Friday.  I can send you a note then if there are any other comments that I have. I should have apologized  in the first paragraph for standing you up while you were here in Houston.  Jeff Shankman was on the war path with some concerns over V@R calculations on the day that you were in town, and my schedule was thrown to the winds until we could get him comfortable with the calculations (he was over his limit that day -- never any questions when he is under!).  I hope that we will have the opportunity to speak in person sometime in the not too distant future. Mike Jordan and I have been working on a worldwide forum for business controllers for all commodities and offices.  I am working on securing a location in or around Houston, shooting for October 23,24 as potential dates.  More details to come on that in the next day or so.  I know that is a long way from Toyko, but if the dates work for you I hope that you can join 
Do you know who this is?  I don't recognize the manager's name.  Thanks. 
I received the note about the Wellesley recruiting team meeting on Thursday. I will look forward to seeing you there. Will you be in Dallas next week for the ASE?  I will be there.  I did let Melissa know when the dates were announced that I will quietly slip out about mid afternoon on Thursday.  Amanda's school open house is Thursday at 7:00, and parents will follow their children's schedules and meet all of the teachers.  With this being Amanda's   first year in junior high, it is important for me to meet the teachers and understand their expectations so that I can best support her in school.  Mary Solmonson and Brent from my team will be there for the duration.  I look forward to seeing you there, too! 
On Sunday, the new Fortune magazine was a roadway for my two-year old's cars.  On Monday, my sixteen year-old used the cover to cut out pictures of money for a school project.  Last night, the magazine made it into my hands around midnight when everything at home was settled in for the night.  What a nice article!  I smiled while reading it.  How nice to see your accomplishments recognized in print.  Congratulations.  I hope that you have 
Glad you got some rain.  We are still doing lots of watering on the yard.  No water rationing in our area yet, but it has been put in place in many areas in and around Houston. I have to be in Austin for a presentation and reception late afternoon on September 5, so I thought that it would be fun to try to come earlier and have lunch for your birthday.  I haven't made flight reservations yet, but I am sure that I can work it to be at the University Club by 12:15. Looks as if the whole family will go to Hallettsville on the 9th.  David and I will enjoy the drive, and I am sure that the girls will enjoy the sleep on the way over! SueW2@aol.com on 08/22/2000 04:05:45 PM 
Sally, I think will get out and do an Indian Rain dance, as the rain is falling and we need lots ot that!  MY reason for writing however, is to say that we will look forward to your having lunch with us at 12:15 on September 5th at the University of Texas Club.  Cindy said you would be in town and that would be a fun celebration, and Cindy and family will join us.  I am also going to invite my cousins, Fab and Mary Anne.  Cara will in New York at that time. The other is, I am thrilled that you and your family are going to be able to go to Hallettsville for Dot's birthday and Cindy, Richard, and Brigeda will be able to be there also as they were able to change their plans for the beach to the following week-end, so I think it will be lots of  fun, and I know it will mean a lot to Dot too.  In fact I called her today and told her you all were going to be able to be there.  Cara will decide when she gets home from CA I guess,  She will be home from New York on the 7th. Love, Mom 
Beth Perlman tells me that you are in charge on this system.  It does not work.  I thought that this was going to be corrected last week.  I am confused about why we are using a system that does not work.  I understand that there are bugs in the system.  Was the system tested before being put into production? I tried to reach you by phone.  You were unavailable and I could not leave a voice mail because that was full.  I talked with Torey Hayden and verbally okayed the access for Bob Hall. Please call me and let me know when the system will be working correctly and how you are going to manage these approvals in the interim while the system is not functioning.  You might at least put a contact name and number on these things if you are going to continue to send these out before the system is fixed. My number is 35926.  I look forward to hearing from you on solutions and timing. 
Please review and act upon this request. You have received this email because the requester specified you as their Manager. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000001833&Email =sally.beck@enron.com to approve the req Request ID          : 000000000001833 Request Create Date : 8/22/00 6:34:12 PM Requested For       : bob.m.hall@enron.com Resource Name       : Live Link Resource Type       : Applications 
I will be at the meeting on the 24th. Geynille Dillingham 08/22/2000 05:55 PM 
Hello Wellesley Recruiting Team, You have been chosen to represent and assist in the Fall 2000 recruiting efforts at Wellesley College for Enron's Associate/Analyst Program. We are excited  about the upcoming association,and welcome you to the team. We have arranged an evening meeting to discuss the details. Please read the following attachment for information concerning the meeting time and place.  If you will not be able to attend, please r.s.v.p your regrets. See you soon! Recruiter, Geynille Dillingham Coordinator, Debbie Flores 
Yes, Harold Powell is providing the clothes for the show.  Beverly Scott, with Harold Powell, is coordinating and commentating.  She offered to call all the girls to set times for them to come in and choose outfits.  I was planning to do that as a go-between, but when she offered to coordinate that I decided to take her up on it.  She just moved her daughter back to Baylor, so she was to begin calling the girls on Monday this week (I had given her a list of names and numbers).  I talked with Linda Smithey this morning and she had not heard from Beverly yet, either, so I am concerned that she hasn't called everyone on the list.  I took Meagan in on Monday night to choose outfits, and Beverly had some great ideas on music, commentary, etc., so I know that she is working on it.  Just a little more slowly than I would like! I have a call in to her to see if I need to take some time from work today and make calls.  Why don't you call Beverly directly today and just coordinate a time for Jenny to go by.  Her number at work is 281-444-0751. Beverly Gibson <bgibson50606@yahoo.com> on 08/23/2000 10:31:41 AM 
Sally: Are you still planning on using Harold Powell for the Fashion Show?  If so, when should the girls go to choose something?  We are in a time bind this weekend because my older daughter is moving back to UT. Please let me know if you need any help. Beverly Gibson (281) 893-3718 __________________________________________________ Do You Yahoo!? Yahoo! Mail - Free email you can access from anywhere! http://mail.yahoo.com/ 
I met with Karen Marshall today.  She is in the Community Relations group and is organizing the dinner on September 7th.  I suggested that she add to the invitation list the other interviewers this year for the scholarships (Roger Ondreko and Gene Humphrey), Brent Price and Loftis Fitzwater (one of last year's scholarhip recepients who started with us as an Associate this summer).  I have also volunteered to coordinate with the University on appropriate attendees, as some of Karen's info is dated and she does not know people at the school. I will keep you posted.  --Sally 
I am not available to interview on December 7th.  I will be in a PRC meeting.  Try me next time!  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Was Lisa a recent hire that Susan Harrison brought in?  I don't immediately recognize her name, but wonder if that's who this is. Also, I left you a message about Bob Klein's resignation, as I learned from Jeff Sorenson.  I am sure that Jeff has communicated this to you.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Please print the attachment for me in color ( I have to put that burnt orange on my bulletin board), put this event on my calendar and research flight information for me.  I would fly over on the afternoon of the 7th and back on the morning of the 8th.  Check with Karen to see if she is handling hotel reservations, or if we should make those.  Thanks. 
Thanks for the follow up.  Please move forward with this offer with the sign on payment.  Thanks. Enron North America Corp. 
This was sent for my approval.  The manager listed below does not work in Energy Operations.  This should be sent to someone else for approval. 
Same time, same place -- just not as often! I would like to maintain management team meetings on Monday afternoons from 2:30 to 3:30 in EB3014.  My plan is to alternate weeks for ENA and EGM meetings.  There are a few direct reports, whose work extends across ENA and EGM, who will attend both meetings.  Today was the ENA Management Team meeting.  Next Monday, August 28 will be the first meeting with the EGM management team.  I will look forward to staying current with each one of you and Brent on the growth and challenges of the businesses within Enron Global Markets. I have asked Patti to cancel one-on-one meetings that we had scheduled on the calendar going forward.  Although this new structure changes the direct line reporting relationship, I will continue to be very interested in the professional development of each of you.  I hope that we can schedule time 
If you absolutely can not find enough of the right players to go on the cruise, let me know.  My husband is scheduled for a baseball game on Wednesday night.  If I could find some Diamond level tickets for another day for him, he might consider giving up his tickets for Wednesday night.  This is a last resort sort of measure, however, so I hope that you find success in 
I didn't have this on my calendar, Lexi, because I wasn't on the list for this event that you handed out regarding the recruiting strategy.  My husband has a commitment away from home for Wednesday night, and with the children in school already, I can't really ask the older kids to babysit for the two year-old during prime homework hours.  Patti has some names that I have suggested for this event and she plans to call you with those names.  Very few of the names on your e:mail message were on the Recruiting Strategy Schedule that you handed out, so I would be surprised if any of these folks have this on their calendars.  You may need some of the names that Patti has for you. I have put the other dates on my calendar, however, and I am in the process of lining those up with our home schedule to make sure that these will work for me. Enron North America Corp. 
I like the trip idea better than a party, personally, so I am glad that Mom and Dad seemed to like that alternative.  And in June, I think that the mountains sound great.  I have a preference for Western mountains -- big, open sky  (Grand Tetons could be great), but if Mom pictures North Carolina as the spot I am sure that we can find something good.  We were in Ashville a couple of years ago, which was very near the Blue Ridge.  We stayed at a place that was supposed to be terrific, but we did not care for it.  I am sure that there are other places in the area to research.  There may also be some spots around Charlottesville, also just off the Blue Ridge.  I think that some people from here have vacationed in that area, so I will ask around and see if there are any good suggestions.  In magazines, I have seen pictures of places in Tennessee and Georgia ( I guess they do have mountains) that look nice.  I will see if I can find the names of those places. Thanks for pursuing this with Mom and Dad.  --Sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/21/2000 01:12:16 PM 
Met Mom and Dad for dinner last night.  I did some pushing for the anniversary decision.  Mom was quite adamant about not liking cruises (Mom, adamant?  What a shock!).  What did seem to appeal was a trip to the mountains (really!).  She's think of N.C.--probably blue ridge.  I know there are some ski resorts there--something like that would also offer our little and not-so-little ones something to do.  I've been searching the web for places during lunch.  Will compile some info and let you know... Cindy 
The record on Friday showed that 127 employees from Energy Operations had pledged dollars to the United Way campaign.  Large number, but still percentage-wise smaller than we would like.  I sent the message below to all Energy Operations employees on Friday afternoon.  We'll see in a few days if this helped on contributions. Text of e:mail message to Energy Operations employees: Two weeks ago I toured the Depelchin Center, one of the organizations that receives much of its funding from the United Way.  I was surprised to find out about the many programs that the center offers to neglected and abused Houston children and  the caring adults who will open their homes as foster parents.  I had already completed my electronic pledge card before going to the center.  Learning about the important programs offered through Depelchin and meeting four year-old Jessica and ten year-old Steven who were temporarily housed there before going to foster homes made me very glad to have made that pledge. Enron has a terrific matching program that allows all employees to receive matching funds for dollars that you may choose to give to non-profit organizations.  Hopefully, many of you take advantage of this to stretch your charitable giving during the year.  The United Way campaign is the one time each year that Enron invites employees to partner with the company to make a difference in the lives of so many in Houston.  Each dollar pledged by an employee is matched by Enron. If you have not yet completed your electronic pledge, please consider doing so as soon as possible.  Our United Way campaign draws to its conclusion next Wednesday, August 23.  I hope that each one of you will consider making a pledge.  There is no gift that is too small, because cumulatively all Enron employees can make a significant positive impact for Houston.  Log on to http://unitedway.enron.com to complete your pledge card. Thanks to the many of you who have already completed your electronic 
Please print this memo and attachments in color for me.  Thanks. --Sally 
Please print the attachment below for me in color.  Thanks. 
Sally, Brent, There are three MG offices in North America outside New York which, previous to the acquisition by Enron, acted much as trading offices. Shona and Naomi have worked with the people in New York to put in place extra controls so that they are not trading offices, for example having a trader in New York or London own each book and sign off on profit daily. This process has highlighted the fact that our non-trading offices are not all the same, and cannot reasonably all be the same. Some offices organise logistics things to happen on the ground, some originate, and some execute for Trading Offices. is a suggestion for how we can make this division explicit. All the cc above are bought in to this approach. What do you require to be comfortable so that we can put it up to Causey and Buy? It is worth noting that this approach would have caught Helsinki, except for the Contract-in-a-bottom-drawer, but no system of control can reliably catch that, as was evidenced by EOTT. Thanks, Richard 
Two weeks ago I toured the Depelchin Center, one of the organizations that receives much of its funding from the United Way.  I was surprised to find out about the many programs that the center offers to neglected and abused Houston children and  the caring adults who will open their homes as foster parents.  I had already completed my electronic pledge card before going to the center.  Learning about the important programs offered through Depelchin and meeting four year-old Jessica and ten year-old Steven who were temporarily housed there before going to foster homes made me very glad to have made that pledge. Enron has a terrific matching program that allows all employees to receive matching funds for dollars that you may choose to give to non-profit organizations.  Hopefully, many of you take advantage of this to stretch your charitable giving during the year.  The United Way campaign is the one time each year that Enron invites employees to partner with the company to make a difference in the lives of so many in Houston.  Each dollar pledged by an employee is matched by Enron. If you have not yet completed your electronic pledge, please consider doing so as soon as possible.  Our United Way campaign draws to its conclusion next Wednesday, August 23.  I hope that each one of you will consider making a pledge.  There is no gift that is too small, because cumulatively all Enron employees can make a significant positive impact for Houston.  Log on to http://unitedway.enron.com to complete your pledge card. Thanks to the many of you who have already completed your electronic 
I have this on my calendar.  At this point, I do not plan to bring anyone else to the meeting.  --Sally Sharron Westbrook @ ENRON 08/18/2000 04:22 PM 
Rick has asked that I schedule a Business Review session with Jeff Skilling early in September.  Jeff is available on September 7 from 10:00 - 11:00. The meeting is scheduled for Jeff's office.  If you plan to bring anyone with you to the meeting please let me know and we will need to move to a larger room. The meeting will be divided into 3  20 minute sessions: SAP Update   Melissa Becker Strategic Sourcing  George Wasaff Global Risk Mgmt/Doorstep Sally Beck 
Sorry that I missed you this morning.  I attended that last Financial Council meeting on SAP this morning just prior to my lunch meeting with Mark Frevert and Rick Causey.  Nothing substantial came up on Helsinki, so it was fine that we didn't get to talk today.  I had wanted to be prepared on how to address out current activities there.  So I can get an update on that when we talk tomorrow. I have a meeting on the analyst and associates program from 9:00 to 10:00 
I got your voice mail message and I understand your concerns around Todd's time.  I think we have it backwards for James to dictate how and when Todd's help would be needed.  I think that we can review the ""to do"" list from James and get back with him on how much of that we can help with, who would do it, what the timing would be, how we might suggest organizing and prioritizing the work, etc.  As I said originally, I knew that Todd would not be interested (nor available) for a month's worth of work.  Todd's tendency (remember this with weather, too) is to think that he has to do all of the work himself.  He has had enough experience that his organization, guidance and leadership can be very valuable without his doing all of the work himself.  If James' list looks long and involved, how could Todd lead these efforts, what kind of team might he ask James to provide, what additional short-term resources might we be able to tap into in Houston, etc.  We have to think a little out of the box to offer a potential solution to James.  If you are willing, I would be glad to explore this with Todd and challenge him to think about how he could provide leadership to the effort, but not do all of the work.  I want him to think like a consultant on these projects, not as the contracted hired help!  Let me know what you think.  --Sally Brent A Price 08/17/2000 03:55 AM 
I don't see any huge problems with Todd helping out Continental Power.  He needs to spend some time in Oslo anyways reviewing the weather business there.  I agree that one month might be unreasonable and would look to Todd to determine the proper timeframe.  I will talk to Todd and Mike Jordan regarding the best way to proceed with this. Enron North America Corp. 
As we said before, I would like to be able to utilize Todd Hall for special projects from time to time.  I had mentioned to Mike Jordan that once Todd completed his CommodityLogic role that I thought that we could take some of his time to follow up on Continental Power issues, which could fit nicely with some work he could do on Weather in Europe.  I don't know about the one month timeframe.  I would prefer that Todd review the initiatives and determine the best way to proceed.  It might mean a couple of weeks over there for starters, and then a follow up, shorter trip a few weeks later.  I don't think that Todd is keen on any elongated stays in Europe, particularly without the family.  Can we still use Todd ? 
Sally, As you are probably aware the Continental Power book split project went well but there were a number of areas which were not completed for one reason or another but essentially IT did not deliver according to the agreed timetable. Todd was instrumental in helping me to drive this forward and was responsible for much of what we achieved. As you may also be aware we had some personnel issues and there have been significant changes in the Continental Risk Management team. We have now recruited a strong manager in Coralie Evans from CSFB and she starts on the 29th of August. We have also added Michelle Waldhauser from the Houston Gas Risk Management team who arrived on the 7th of August. There are a number of issues and developments which would greatly benefit from having Todd here in London for around a month (I say around a month as I am guessing within this period he would want to spend some time in Oslo pushing the weather Risk Management area forward). Attached is a page I put together that cover our immediate needs and why Todd is ideally placed to potentially add an enormous amount of value to the Continental Power business. Could we please get together with Brent Price and Mike Jordan and discuss whether Todd would be available come over. Thanks and regards James 
August 18, 2000 
I will be there!  --Sally 
Todd is completing his short-term role on the CommodityLogic team, and it is my hope that he will be able to provide some help for you after that is completed, while also working in his role with Weather.  I have sent a message to Brent and I am sure that we will talk.  --Sally James New 08/16/2000 07:54 AM 
Sally, As you are probably aware the Continental Power book split project went well but there were a number of areas which were not completed for one reason or another but essentially IT did not deliver according to the agreed timetable. Todd was instrumental in helping me to drive this forward and was responsible for much of what we achieved. As you may also be aware we had some personnel issues and there have been significant changes in the Continental Risk Management team. We have now recruited a strong manager in Coralie Evans from CSFB and she starts on the 29th of August. We have also added Michelle Waldhauser from the Houston Gas Risk Management team who arrived on the 7th of August. There are a number of issues and developments which would greatly benefit from having Todd here in London for around a month (I say around a month as I am guessing within this period he would want to spend some time in Oslo pushing the weather Risk Management area forward). Attached is a page I put together that cover our immediate needs and why Todd is ideally placed to potentially add an enormous amount of value to the Continental Power business. Could we please get together with Brent Price and Mike Jordan and discuss whether Todd would be available come over. Thanks and regards James 
As we said before, I would like to be able to utilize Todd Hall for special projects from time to time.  I had mentioned to Mike Jordan that once Todd completed his CommodityLogic role that I thought that we could take some of his time to follow up on Continental Power issues, which could fit nicely with some work he could do on Weather in Europe.  I don't know about the one month timeframe.  I would prefer that Todd review the initiatives and determine the best way to proceed.  It might mean a couple of weeks over there for starters, and then a follow up, shorter trip a few weeks later.  I don't think that Todd is keen on any elongated stays in Europe, particularly without the family.  Can we still use Todd ? 
Sally, As you are probably aware the Continental Power book split project went well but there were a number of areas which were not completed for one reason or another but essentially IT did not deliver according to the agreed timetable. Todd was instrumental in helping me to drive this forward and was responsible for much of what we achieved. As you may also be aware we had some personnel issues and there have been significant changes in the Continental Risk Management team. We have now recruited a strong manager in Coralie Evans from CSFB and she starts on the 29th of August. We have also added Michelle Waldhauser from the Houston Gas Risk Management team who arrived on the 7th of August. There are a number of issues and developments which would greatly benefit from having Todd here in London for around a month (I say around a month as I am guessing within this period he would want to spend some time in Oslo pushing the weather Risk Management area forward). Attached is a page I put together that cover our immediate needs and why Todd is ideally placed to potentially add an enormous amount of value to the Continental Power business. Could we please get together with Brent Price and Mike Jordan and discuss whether Todd would be available come over. Thanks and regards James 
Thanks for taking the time to give me your input on the analyst program.  It 
Cathy:  slight wording change from Rick Causey:  add words at beginning of third sentence in italics and drop the phrase ""on accounting issues and reporting earnings"" at the end of that third sentence.  Thanks.  Clear as mud?  --Sally Brent Price will be joining Enron Global Markets as Vice President of Operations and Chief Accounting Officer.  He will report to the EGM Office of the Chairman, and to Sally Beck, Vice President of Global Risk Management Operations.  In his role as Chief Accounting Officer, Brent will also report to Rick Causey, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for Enron Corp.  Reporting to Brent in his new position will be Sheila Glover, business controller for Global Financial Products;  Todd Hall, business controller for Weather; and Scott Earnest, business controller for Global Products and Coal.  In addition, Tom Myers has joined Brent's management team as Director of Accounting.  Brent and his team are responsible for all accounting, risk reporting and trading operations for all the businesses 
Call or e:mail - either one is great.  I do hope that you are working with James directly on these issues as they surface.  It is still not clear to me whether or not you two have spent time together on these issues.  I will always support whatever changes can be made to our processes or controls that will insure better information.  Because I can't personally do all of the work, I just want to be sure that you are plugged in to work directly with the right management team members on my team. I don't think that we are purposefully doing duplicate work.  I believe that the manual process that moves information from the Entelligence team to GCP has apparently not worked as well as was designed.  While sorry that the results haven't been as expected, we are glad to have your input now to help address this.  James has reassigned the resources from Entelligence for now to work with Mary Gosnell on updates to GCP that I understand have been prioritized with you. 
I certainly agree that updated information from the wider company database should flow to update GCP.  I assume that you have talked with both Mary Solmonson and James Scribner about this process to understand the details. They are the logical experts for that discussion.  Your memo is a little vague on that, so if you are getting information from someone else and have not taken the time to talk with the best sources, I would suggest spending time with James and Mary so that you and they are appropriately informed. Absolutely there are procedures in place to handle these updates to GCP.  I believe that these are pretty manual, as there are no systematic feeds from Entelligence into GCP.  James and Mary (I refer to both because James has only recently assumed Mary's duties within Global Databases) can best discuss how this process works.  If you are aware of specific concerns around this, I know that James and Mary will want to hear that from you.  As is to be expected for any business that has experienced a 600% increase in the number of transactions year on year, there are challenges that we face daily in all of the tasks that we do.  Your input will help James in making sure that priorities are set and personnel are deployed to tackle the biggest issues that we have.  I recognize the challenge that Credit must be facing in aggregating exposures in our market environment today.  With your input, we will do our very best to be certain that the data surrounding the 5.000+ deals that are done daily is as accurate as possible. 
Meeting 
I am resending this memo regarding the information that I need from you as Cheryl Ingstad's supervisor as I prepare to represent her in the Associates PRC meeting next week.  I am tied up in other PRC meetings on December 7, 8 and 11, so I am doing my homework earlier rather than later this week. Please note the bullet points in the memo below which outline the information that I need.  I do have copies of the internal feedback forms and Cheryl's self-evaluation.  Let me know if you have any questions.  I know that things are very busy right now, but it is important to the Associates that their reps in the PRC process are well prepared.  Your input will help me with that.  Thanks. --Sally 
I will serve as a representative to the  Associates PRC meeting that will take place on December 12.  As a PRC rep, I have been assigned the Associates to represent in the meeting as indicated below.  The Associates Program has provided me with your name as the supervisor of record as of October 1 of the Associate as listed. Please send the following information to me by December 1. Associate's accomplishments for the second half of 2000 (prepared by the associate or summarized by you) Description of associate's current responsibilities/assignment (and any additional rotational assignments during this last six months of the year) Pre-ranking of the associate from your business unit PRC , or your suggestion on ranking if no business unit PRC process has been completed (Superior, Excellent, Strong, Satisfactory, Needs Improvement or Issues) Any other information that you believe will be helpful in accurately representing the associate in the PRC process Recommendation for promotion, if any I will receive a copy of the Consolidated Supervisor Feedback from the PEP system through the Associates Program. I will be at a management conference Thursday and Friday of this week, then on vacation until Monday, November 27.  My assistant, Patti Thompson, will be contacting you next week to arrange a time to meet or talk by phone during the week of November 27 or December 4 to discuss your associate and his/her performance in more detail.  I will also contact the Associates and meet with them individually in preparation for the PRC meeting. Thanks for your attention to this.  If you are not the appropriate PRC supervisor for the Associate listed above,  please reply by e:mail as soon as possible and my assistant will research where I should go next for this input. 
Rick:  This is a draft of the language to be used in a McConnell/Shankman memo to go out on their new organization.  I worked with Mike on the language for this paragraph.  Any comments or suggested changes? Mike would like to send this out ASAP, ideally this afternoon.  Thanks for taking a look. draft Brent Price will be joining Enron Global Markets as Vice President of Operations and Chief Accounting Officer.  He will report to the EGM Office of the Chairman, and to Sally Beck, Vice President of Global Risk Management Operations.  He will coordinate with Rick Causey, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for Enron Corp., on accounting issues and reporting earnings.  Reporting to Brent in his new position will be Sheila Glover, business controller for Global Financial Products;  Todd Hall, business controller for Weather; and Scott Earnest, business controller for Global Products and Coal.  In addition, Tom Myers has joined Brent's management team as Director of Accounting.  Brent and his team are responsible for all accounting, risk reporting and trading operations for all 
Please put this on my calendar.  I assume that this every other week meeting will replace the weekly Friday meeting.  Thanks. 
As part of the restructuring between ENA and Global Markets and consistent with the view to increase our focus on building our core gas and power business, we have decided to re-formulate the ENA Management Committee.  As part of this change, each of you are invited to participate in dialogue and decisions which will impact the overall course of our business. Ultimately, this group is responsible for the overall financial performance and strategic direction of ENA.  The only structural committment to your time will be a pre-scheduled Management Committee meeting every second Friday afternoon starting at 2:30 PM until 4:30PM in 30 C2 (video conference room).  The Portland, Canadian and Mexican offices can connect via video conference.  The meetings wil focus on financial targets, deal flow, market opportunities, staffing and strategic direction.  The first meeting will be scheduled on this Friday. Everybody should make a serious committment to attend, to stay for the entire meeting and to be on time. Regards Delainey 
Should have sent you a copy of this... 
As a result of the creation of the Global Markets business in the last few days, I would add the following persons to the attendee list for the ASE in Dallas: Brent Price  VP Operations and CAO, Global Markets Tom Myers  Director of Accounting, Global Markets Brent is in London this week, and will be on vacation the week of August 21. With the demands of a new role, Brent will be best able to address the feasibility of one or both of them attending. 
As a result of the creation of the Global Markets business in the last few days, I would add the following persons to the attendee list for the ASE in Dallas: Brent Price  VP Operations and CAO, Global Markets Tom Myers  Director of Accounting, Global Markets Brent is in London this week, and will be on vacation the week of August 21. With the demands of a new role, Brent will be best able to address the feasibility of one or both of them attending. 
Can you join me at this meeting?  I plan to talk with Tom Gros tomorrow to let him know that you will be the liasion with CommodityLogic for Energy Operations.  Then I thought that we could both attend this next meeting as a transition.  Then it's on your calendar after that !  --Sally 
REMINDER : Our weekly CommodityLogic Team meeting will be held in EB 21C2 on Wednesday, August 16th. from 10am - 11am. If you have any questions or will be UNABLE to attend, please feel free to send me an e-mail or call me. Thanks, Brenda x31914 
Around midnight last night as I was creating our calendar for the week, I ran through the incoming calls on caller ID to find the piano teacher's number. I think that I saw yours.  Did I miss you sometime this weekend?  With almost two teenagers in the house, my personal messages have dropped very far down the list in importance.  I an never quite sure that I get messages that anyone calls!  Feel free to call me at work, or I can try to catch you during my commute tonight again. Hope you had a good weekend.  Ours involved homework, shoe shopping and continuing the search for new clothes.  Our friend Mo was in town from London 
Thanks for the update on Dad.  Keep me posted on what you hear.  No, I didn't get the message that Cara had called.  With almost two teenagers in the house, my personal messages fall very far down the list in importance!  I will e:mail her today and maybe we can talk tonight if she can't talk from work.  --Sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/14/2000 10:43:50 AM 
Did you get the message the Cara called you yesterday?  I THINK SHE HAS SOMETHING SHE WANT TO TELL YOU... Delved a little bit into the Dad health issue.  Apparently he's still not feeling too well--very fatigued, diahrea (sp?), not gaining weight, etc. plus the voice thing.  He went to the dr on Friday--I don't think they know exactly what to do...Cara and I have suggested a nutritionist but, you know, Mother knows nutrition so I guess that is not needed.... I don't think Dad looks very good but I don't think he has for a while.... Cindy 
I am sorry that you won't be here to join us for the lunch for Kristin.  It was a trick getting a date that worked for her schedule and mine.  Since this is her last official week with ENA, I did want to do this before she starts her new assignment.  --Sally 
I have been able to move up the meeting with Mark Frevert regarding responsibility for operations for ENA, EGM and EEL to Thursday, August 17 instead of August 28.   I will keep you posted. I met with Brent's direct reports yesterday afternoon and announced Brent's new role.  I will have three persons leading the natural gas team:  Steve Jackson, Leslie Reeves and Bob Hall.  I am confident that this will work 
FYI:  Rick agreed with the attached note that I sent him.  By voice mail, I suggested Ted Murphy as a substitute for Rick Buy for the meeting.  We are set for next Thursday, August 17 at 11:45 in Rick Causey's office over lunch.  I am meeting with Ted this afternoon to fill him in on the purpose of the meeting and to be certain that I have his support.  Rick Causey suggested citing some of the items in my memo to him when we get with Frevert.  Any words of wisdom or suggestions for the meeting? Hope that everything is fun and relaxing in Maine.  --Sally 
Not surprisingly, the organization is moving faster than Rick Buy's vacation schedule.  Our meeting is set with Mark Frevert, Rick Buy, you and me on August 28 -- two weeks from next Monday, dictated by Rick Buy's schedule.  I am concerned that waiting that long to get with Mark to discuss the potential formalization of a global risk management operations role will put us behind the curve. Mike McConnell and Jeff Shankman plan to release a memo tomorrow on the structure of the Global Markets team, which will include a discussion on Brent's role and reporting responsibilities.  Brent and Scott Earnest are flying to London next Monday evening to spend the remainder of the week in that office to iron out details on supporting the global markets businesses. Many of their discussions will be with Mike Jordan and some logical points will be raised around co-ordination between EEL and EGM.  In a conversation with Gary Hickerson on Tuesday regarding his business, he stated that he wanted to be sure that I had responsibility over London operations, as he will have support personnel in London and wants to be certain that efforts are coordinated.  Separately, Jeff Shankman said that he was certainly comfortable with Brent in the Operations/CAO role but that he wanted Brent to report to me to ensure consistency, access to support resources and logic around systems issues that cut across the ocean.  I told him that you and I had had discussions about a more formalized role to encompass responsibility for London and that we had a meeting planned with Mark Frevert on August 28. That's a lifetime to a trader, and Jeff said he hoped that we could nail that down before the end of the month. What are your thoughts about an earlier meeting with Mark Frevert?  The summary of doorstep findings can be finalized early next week.  I have checked Mark's travel schedule.  He will be in the Houston office next week, with Thursday, August 17 as the best day to potentially schedule a meeting. I am not trying to rush this process, yet I know that by the end of August much will have been decided around coordinating between ENA, EGM and EEL operations.  I would like to be in a position to help guide those decisions, rather than arrive at the party late. 
I'm glad to know that she is home.  I can just imagine how much fun those oxygen treatments will be!  I know that you will be thankful to have your whole family under the same roof.  --Sally Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 12/01/2000 05:47 PM 
Olivia came home this afternoon at 4pm. Hopefully much better. She'll have the oxygen treatment every 2 hours off some massive & complicated contraption. B. 
Life is busy at Enron and I literally receive hundreds of e:mails every week.  This is not the best way to communicate with me on priority issues.  I have looked at your proposal and would be interested in learning more.  Can you provide more details beyond your presentation?  What is your background and experience?  Can you provide information on your company? ConfirmCorp@aol.com on 08/01/2000 09:16:40 AM 
Sally: Since I have not heard back from you is it safe to assume that you are not interested learning more about how Enron can automate its confirmation process?  If this is the case, would it be okay if I approached someone else in your organization about the idea? Thanks for your consideration. Chris Papousek 
I think that you and Allan misunderstood the request from Nelson Wu.  If you look at his resume, is already with Enron as an Associate.  His e:mail to Allan Sommer seems to indicate that he is interested in a rotation in Allan's group.  Normally, I think that associates talk directly with someone in a group in which they may have an interest.  I don't think that HR gets involved in this process.  I am not sure how I got into this loop.  It seems that if Allan has an interest in having an Associate do a rotation in his group then he should talk with Nelson.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Definitely clever!  I wish that I had thought of the changing the clock thing when the girls were younger and had slumber parties. I didn't know that there were computer games that work on higher level math skills.  I will definitely look into that for Meagan. I wish that we could meet for lunch.  Keep me posted on Cara  -- I have called her a little more frequently lately in hopes that she would spill the beans, but no movement on that yet! I think that next week we will know the schedule of games when Meagan will be dancing.  She did not make the dance for the first try-out.  It was jazz; not her strong suit.  But she did make the dances for the next two try-outs: a kick rountine and a pom routine.  There are two more try outs -- one more for kick and one more for pom. Hopefully she will make both.  Each routines is danced at two games -- one at home and one away.  So if she makes the next two dances, then she will be in 8 out of 10 dances for the football season. I think that she would feel pretty good about that.  The last two try-outs will be next week.  I will keep you posted. Have a great weekend.  Love, Sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/11/2000 12:02:42 PM 
That was always one of my favorites!  The old Parent Trap is always great too,  I wish that I could be there. I know that Brigeda must be excited about the slumber party.  When does she start school?  Today is day #2 for the girls --Amanda loves her classes.  Meagan thought that the first day ""sucked"".  I have been on the phone with her counselor and assistant principal this morning trying to undo a bad decision that she made on her class selection.  Despite annual struggles with algebra and geometry, she signed up for both Physics and Pre-Calc!!!   I don't know what she was thinking!!  Amazingly, for a school as large as Klein, I was persuasive enough with the assistant principal that they will ignore the July 22 deadline for changing your schedule and they will let her drop Physics and add a study hall.  She still will take Pre-Calc, but she is in a regulars class that will be a review of Algebra II during the first semester, which is probably exactly what she needs.  I was prepared to go all the way to the school board if necessary to get her a schedule that makes sense, but luckily I didn't have to go that far. Hope that you have a good weekend!  Love, sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/09/2000 11:35:19 AM 
Sally (and yes, I did check thrice to make sure I had the right Sally!), Thought I'd let you know that I found a rental of IN SEARCH OF THE CASTAWAYS.  Thought it might be good for the slumber party--we've got a tropical island theme going.... Cindy 
The employee for whom access if requested is not an employee of Energy Operations.  I would assume that with his supervisor listed as Ed Baughman, that he is in a commercial origination group.  Someone else should be reviewing and approving this. 
That was always one of my favorites!  The old Parent Trap is always great too,  I wish that I could be there. I know that Brigeda must be excited about the slumber party.  When does she start school?  Today is day #2 for the girls --Amanda loves her classes.  Meagan thought that the first day ""sucked"".  I have been on the phone with her counselor and assistant principal this morning trying to undo a bad decision that she made on her class selection.  Despite annual struggles with algebra and geometry, she signed up for both Physics and Pre-Calc!!!   I don't know what she was thinking!!  Amazingly, for a school as large as Klein, I was persuasive enough with the assistant principal that they will ignore the July 22 deadline for changing your schedule and they will let her drop Physics and add a study hall.  She still will take Pre-Calc, but she is in a regulars class that will be a review of Algebra II during the first semester, which is probably exactly what she needs.  I was prepared to go all the way to the school board if necessary to get her a schedule that makes sense, but luckily I didn't have to go that far. Hope that you have a good weekend!  Love, sally ""Cindy White"" <cwhite@viviance.com> on 08/09/2000 11:35:19 AM 
Sally (and yes, I did check thrice to make sure I had the right Sally!), Thought I'd let you know that I found a rental of IN SEARCH OF THE CASTAWAYS.  Thought it might be good for the slumber party--we've got a tropical island theme going.... Cindy 
Thanks for copying me on this.  It is interesting to see your thoughts.  I suggested that Tom visit with both you and Mike while he was in London.  I told Mike that I support many of the ideas of CommodityLogic.  However, I also told him about my two dark-side fears:  (1)  that IT resources reporting to Networks would make it even more difficult to get the attention on projects that we need, and (2)  taken to the extreme, that this concept would disinsent operations personnel from coming up with creative solutions to managing the growth of the business if all good ideas are swept away to this special team for them to handle.  Part of the fun in operations is improving things, and I would hate to rob some of our most knowledgeable people of the chance to implement creative business solutions. Richard Sage 08/11/2000 10:10 AM 
Mike, Further to our conversation, here are some of the things I thought of while speaking with Tom Gros. There are definitely some challenges we have to overcome to make the Hub idea within CommodityLogic.com as successful as EnronOnLine rather than have it turn out like Sitara. I won't repeat thoughts about how we split CL from Enron, but let's put ourselves in the shoes of somebody external for whom this was presented as a potential solution. Well, that's an easy decision, somebody else is doing the hard work, and not charging us very much for it. So sign-up, but don't rely on anything until we see everything working. Handling counterparties not using the system The challenge here is that the Final Solution World with overybody using the Hub is wonderful, but until everybody is using the Hub, we have to keep other procedures and systems going, which stretches resources, Development, IT Support and user. This was why we decided to delay getting Bolero - the concept is wonderful, but the value to any user is very dependent on everyone else one trades with using the system. This is classic Chicken and Egg. Tom has a vision of CL providing the staff to handle this. This is taking us closer to an outsource-to-Andersen-consulting model which is certainly achievable, although not quite such an easy sell. How much resource is left The latest project always tends to attract the most imaginative people, who are therefore not available for keeping everything else going and moving onwards. How about if we accept that such resource is dedicated to CL, and then review what is left in the remaining environment. Does it mean we hold off doing anything? If we do then increasing volume means that we might end up incurring costs for massive numbers of people! We should go through costing for ""What happens if we completely stop development of X project?"". If that shows one would need 200 clerks for 3 years until something else comes along then it may be cheaper than developing, but I hope in most cases it is not! Start small to prove concept E.g. first application in April 2001 only covers 20 fields This is excellent, and we needn't shout it too loud to investors in CL, but for our internal back office costing we need to acknowledge that it will be years before we can switch off many internal systems. We might limit the payback period on projects not part of this strategy to 3 years out? Include European aspects from the beginning This really isn't very difficult so long as one has some long-on-common-sense Europeans (not just Brits) involved in both specification and development from the beginning, but an as example of how not to do it, look at EnPower which took a year to allow just for currencies etc! 80-20 rule for types of transaction EOL has shown the benefits of focussing on simpler products first. Once we have robust warehouses for collecting accounting (DTL) and risk (RisktRAC?) numbers then we can think about having vanilla products on STP, and yet-to-become-vanilla products on explicitly different, manual approaches. Until that time, we have a strong desire to include as many different prodcuts as possible for a given commodity in one system, which makes separating vanillas from others more complicated and costly (Think of certain deals in Power99 which are approximations of the actual deals, and manually tweaked every so often) Testing Tom's first thought is that we could leverage initial users (who would not pay) to do much of the testing. EOL clearly got its testing done, but other experience shows that in order to have anything which saves time one really does need to do all the different phases - component, system, integration, end-to-end, and then user-acceptance. EOL saw confidentiality as an issue and was therefore unable to use many external users early in the process. It did have massive resource-commandability and so obtained input from many traders. Do the Support functions have sufficient slack that they will be able to provide the same sort of user attention? Given how often I hear ""short people"", that strikes me as something which in London would require significant additional resource, even after MG is absorbed. What else did you come up with? Richard 
Do we have these numbers for Hector? 
Not surprisingly, the organization is moving faster than Rick Buy's vacation schedule.  Our meeting is set with Mark Frevert, Rick Buy, you and me on August 28 -- two weeks from next Monday, dictated by Rick Buy's schedule.  I am concerned that waiting that long to get with Mark to discuss the potential formalization of a global risk management operations role will put us behind the curve. Mike McConnell and Jeff Shankman plan to release a memo tomorrow on the structure of the Global Markets team, which will include a discussion on Brent's role and reporting responsibilities.  Brent and Scott Earnest are flying to London next Monday evening to spend the remainder of the week in that office to iron out details on supporting the global markets businesses. Many of their discussions will be with Mike Jordan and some logical points will be raised around co-ordination between EEL and EGM.  In a conversation with Gary Hickerson on Tuesday regarding his business, he stated that he wanted to be sure that I had responsibility over London operations, as he will have support personnel in London and wants to be certain that efforts are coordinated.  Separately, Jeff Shankman said that he was certainly comfortable with Brent in the Operations/CAO role but that he wanted Brent to report to me to ensure consistency, access to support resources and logic around systems issues that cut across the ocean.  I told him that you and I had had discussions about a more formalized role to encompass responsibility for London and that we had a meeting planned with Mark Frevert on August 28. That's a lifetime to a trader, and Jeff said he hoped that we could nail that down before the end of the month. What are your thoughts about an earlier meeting with Mark Frevert?  The summary of doorstep findings can be finalized early next week.  I have checked Mark's travel schedule.  He will be in the Houston office next week, with Thursday, August 17 as the best day to potentially schedule a meeting. I am not trying to rush this process, yet I know that by the end of August much will have been decided around coordinating between ENA, EGM and EEL operations.  I would like to be in a position to help guide those decisions, 
I don't know Mog Hue.  Please return this request to the person who originated it so that the Manager section can be completed.  By including the manager's name, that will help me to identify who this person is, what job they perform and whether or not the request makes sense.  I have over 400 people in my group, so without more detail on these requests it is not worth taking my time to approve these.  --Sally 
I don't know Sabrina Rank.  Please return this request to the person who originated it so that the Manager section can be completed.  By including the manager's name, that will help me to identify who this person is, what job they perform and whether or not the request makes sense.  I have over 400 people in my group, so without more detail on these requests it is not worth taking my time to approve these.  --Sally 
I have been on jury duty since Tuesday this week - I had Patti call Chris today and let him know that I would get back with him next week.  I will keep you posted as I have time to focus on that next week.  Thanks for following up!  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
David is doing well, too.  He is working contract, having quit Burlington Resources about a year ago so that his work schedule could be more flexible. Yes, Tammy is still with us.  We marked our 10 year anniversary with her in March, except for that six month period when she was with her dad in Kentucky.  I truly am blessed.  --Sally 
It was great to see a friendly face!  Don't ever hesitate to wave or stop in and say hello.  Can you believe that I had been on the 30th floor since the summer of 1994?!  I know that sets some kind of record at Enron!!  It is kind of fun to be up here.  The appreciation for the jobs that we do in operations has grown over the last several years, thanks to the hard work of you and so many others. My family is doing great.  The children start school tomorrow.  Meagan will be a junior in high school -- we took a brief trip with her this summer for an early look at some colleges.  It will be a big year for Amanda -- she starts junior high in 6th grade.  And Tyler would tell you proudly that he is ""two and a half"".  What a delight he continues to be!! I know that Erin has worked hard.  I hope that she and her husband are doing well.  --Sally 
Can you arrange with Bobbi?  Thanks. 
Thanks Sal, lets have lunch soon.  Could  you  ask your assistant to get with Bobbie to schedule.......... 
Great job, as usual, on the United Way kick off today.  I saw Amy Leeand Eylesse Kalmans as I left the Hyatt and I told them.  Please pass the kudos along to the rest of your team.  The theme was timely, the staging was great, the questions on the gameshow were even educational for newer Enron employees, giving a little histsory and folklore about Enron.  (I knew the WLEC 1 answer!) I especially enjoyed the breakfast at Depelchin last Friday.  Their programs are important to all of us and the tour was very moving as we met some of the 
To all Energy Operations employees: ENA has experienced extraordinary growth thus far in 2000.  I am especially proud of the accomplishments of Energy Operations in supporting this growth. I wanted to express my appreciation for all the hard work and dedication that you have demonstrated.  We have done great work and I want to recognize you for that. Although we have done much, we have additional goals to accomplish within ENA and Energy Operations this year.  Therefore, as we go forward, I want to make sure that you have all the necessary tools to do the best possible job, and that any barriers that may impede your work are removed. To help in this effort, I have asked a consulting organization -- S.J. Bashen Corporation -- to survey our organization; to ""take its pulse"" if you will; to help us understand what in our environment fosters success and where we 
Can you help me on this?  Can you give me the name of someone who sends messages from ARSystem@ect.com?  To make matters even more frustrating, when I tried to e:mail back to get some clarification, I got a message that said my e:mail was undeliverable.  No contact name, no phone number, and no ability to e:mail back.  I'm stuck!!  Thanks.  --Sally 
Is there a person who can attach a name and number to this request?  I receive many requests daily and I have yet to see any two alike.  Makes it tough on someone to act on these, especially when sent without a name or contact number if there is a question.   When I click on the address included in this message, someone else's name comes up (Steve Beck).  I don't know who you are, what you want me to do, or if you even have the right person. ARSystem@ect.enron.com on 08/09/2000 09:33:29 AM 
Please review and act upon this request. You have received this email because you are listed as a data approver. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000001337&Email =sally.beck@enron.com to approve the request. Request ID          : 000000000001337 Request Create Date : 8/9/00 9:31:53 AM Requested For       : mog.heu@enron.com Resource Name       : EOL US Risk Management Application Product Data Manager Resource Type       : Applications 
Is there a person who can attach a name and number to this request?  I receive many requests daily and I have yet to any two alike.  Makes it tough on someone to act on these, especially when sent with a name.  When I click on the address included in this message, someone else's name comes up (Steve Beck).  I don't know who you are, what you want me to do, or if you even have the right person. ARSystem@ect.enron.com on 08/09/2000 09:33:29 AM 
Please review and act upon this request. You have received this email because you are listed as a data approver. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000001337&Email =sally.beck@enron.com to approve the request. Request ID          : 000000000001337 Request Create Date : 8/9/00 9:31:53 AM Requested For       : mog.heu@enron.com Resource Name       : EOL US Risk Management Application Product Data Manager Resource Type       : Applications 
I can't shed any light on the topic choice.  Surely you can redirect the topic.   Brent may have more info. --Sally Richard Causey@ENRON 08/09/2000 10:34 AM 
Any idea how that became the topic?? 
Dear Rick: As you may know, I have recently assumed the duties of PPA/MPA Director at The University of Texas at Austin. In my new capacity, I shall be responsible for the 2000 Fall Lyceum Series, scheduled by my predecessor, Dr. Don Tidrick. I understand that you will be addressing our 4th Year PPA students on ""Global Equity Markets"" in the Lyceum on Wednesday, November 1, from 5:00 to 6:30 p.m. (approximately), in UTC 2.102A. Both the students and I are looking forward to your presentation. In advance of the presentation, could you provide me with a brief biography for introduction purposes? If you have any questions concerning the Lyceum, or if I can facilitate your Lyceum presentation in any way, please do not hesitate to contact me. Very truly yours, Richard J. Joseph, Director Master of Professional Accounting Degree Programs The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School of Business CBA 4M202 Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-6559 (Office) (512) 471-3365 (Fax) Richard J. Joseph, Director Master of Professional Accounting Degree Programs The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School of Business CBA 4M.202 Austin, Texas 78712 (512) 471-6559 (Office) (512) 471-3365 (Fax) 
It was great to see a friendly face!  Don't ever hesitate to wave or stop in and say hello.  Can you believe that I had been on the 30th floor since the summer of 1994?!  I know that sets some kind of record at Enron!!  It is kind of fun to be up here.  The appreciation for the jobs that we do in operations has grown over the last several years, thanks to the hard work of you and so many others. My family is doing great.  The children start school tomorrow.  Meagan will be a junior in high school -- we took a brief trip with her this summer for an early look at some colleges.  It will be a big year for Amanda -- she starts junior high in 6th grade.  And Tyler would tell you proudly that he is ""two and a half"".  What a delight he continues to be!! I know that Erin has worked hard.  I hope that she and her husband are doing well.  --Sally 
ina.rangel@enron.com 
There is a problem with this process.  When Sally goes to website & enters her ID & password, steve.beck comes up - not sally.beck.  Until this is fixed, she will be unable to process these requests.  Please either fix this or find another way for her to approve. Thanks, Patti x39106 (Sally Beck's Assistant) ARSystem@ect.enron.com on 08/08/2000 07:04:07 PM 
This request has been pending your approval for 4 days. Please click http://itcApps.corp.enron.com/srrs/Approve/Detail.asp?ID=000000000001126&Email =sally.beck@enron.com to approve the request or contact IRM at 713-853-5536 if you have any issues. Request ID          : 000000000001126 Request Create Date : 8/3/00 9:14:22 AM Requested For       : ina.rangel@enron.com Resource Name       : EOL US Backoffice  Stack Manager Resource Type       : Applications 
I understand that the return e:mail that I sent to Kim Rizzi on November 27th was not opened by HR.  Please note on my e:mail below that I had asked for clarification on Brent Price.  This was the second e:mail that I had sent to Kim regarding Brent with no reply back.  My first message had noted for Kim that Brent was left out of my list, and asked whether or not Rick Causey planned to supply a pre-ranking for Brent or if I needed to do so.  Can you clarify this for me?  Brent reports to me as the head of operations for EGM and to Rick Causey in his role as CAO of EGM. Here are the appropriate pre-rankings for grouped by level: Superior  Excellent Strong Satisfactory    Needs Improv.  Issues VP's      Price  Hedstrom Hall Sr. Directors Solmonson Reeves Herod Scribner Directors  Thomas  Mills  Superty Henenberg Perez Wilson   Venturatos 
I have completed preliminary rankings on the attached sheet.  You had included my name, and I did not put in a preliminary rank.  Brent Price's name is missing.  I would put him in the Excellent category at this time. Let me know if you need anything else.  It is possible that I may change a few of the preliminary rankings as I get more information from my direct reports who supervise certain directors.   I will let you know.  --Sally 
The United Way Executive Solicitiation is underway.  You should have received an e:mail message about a week or ten days ago which let you know that you this year pledges should be made on line.  Mark Frevert reminded everyone at today's ENA staff meeting to complete their pledges by Tuesday, August 8.  If you have not already done so, I would encourage you to complete your pledges before Tuesday.  Patti Thompson can tell you where to go on line to do this. Peggy:  United Way may not apply in Canada, so ignore this if not 
Yeah!!  Yes, staff meeting is 2:30 to 3:30 on Mondays in EB3014  - convenient for you at this point. Bob M Hall@ENRON 08/03/2000 12:52 PM 
I am finally in the system!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I have given Patti access to my calendar so you can find me. Also, do you have a direct report meeting on a regular basis? thanks bob 
FYI 
Scott Earnest is travelling late this afternoon to Richmond, Virginia, to meet with Media General.  He will return to the office on Friday morning around 10:00 a.m. Scott will be in negotiations and will not have his cell phone or pager on. He will check voice mails frequently.  I will be available to take messages also. Regards, Sue Foust 
I left you a return voice mail regarding Scott.  Let me know if I did  not understand the role that you are trying to fill. I hope that Jo likes Dr. Moore.  I thought that everyone in his office was so warm and friendly. Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 08/03/2000 11:20 AM 
Did you get my message re: Scott Mills? And Jo is seeing your ObGyn tomorrow for this first itme. B. 
Requesting update access for what?  (can't tell from this request what it is that you want me to approve) Is this request for Sheila Glover or Rebecca Ford?  (unclear) Next to Sheila's name is the word Trader.  Is this supposed to be her title?   She is not a trader.  She is a Business Controller. Can you provide some clarification so that I can act upon this?  Thanks for your earlier phone message, Leola.  This is still a bad process and the information is not sufficient to give an approval. Information Risk Management 08/03/2000 09:46 AM 
Below you will find a copy of a request that is awaiting your approval. Please advise us as to your approval or rejection of this request by way of email. I thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. Leola Barnett IRM X37965 
Kristin will be working for EBS at the time of this class, reporting to Barry Pearce.  Please contact Kristin or Barry for the appropriate RC within EBS to charge for the fee for this class.  If you charged ENA at the time of enrollment, please reverse that charge.  Thanks. Ernie 08/03/2000 10:05 AM Sent by: Kristin Albrecht 
Kristin Albrecht is enrolled in Derivatives III - Deriv Structuring Profiting from Unbundling & Embedding Class Days and Times: 11/9/2000  08:00:00 AM - 05:00:00 PM 11/10/2000  08:00:00 AM - 05:00:00 PM Participant Fee: $1000.00 Thank you for your support in providing quality and cost effective development opportunites at Enron. Your Company and RC will be charged $1000.00 If you have any questions, please call the Development Center Team at 713-853-0357. Thank you. 
To give you more clarity, Stephen transferred to EBS effective July 1, 2000. His move to EBS was agreed to earlier in 2000, with the understanding that it would be effective upon the completion of the SAP implementation for ENA on July 1.  Stephen was playing a critical role in ENA to insure a smooth transition for SAP, and Todd Lindholm at EBS was in agreement that Stephen would remain an ENA employee through implementation, with his performance review being based on his work for ENA.  Stephen is very talented and will no doubt do a great job at EBS.  During the first 6 months of 2000, however, his heart was already at EBS and he failed to communicate with my other direct reports on SAP issues, consistently missed my staff meetings, recruited our other key SAP expert to EBS without a back-up plan for ENA, etc.  It was his failure to make his SAP assignment a priority that landed him in the Needs Improvement category relative to other directors on my team.   It is the r elativity of his performance that is key, not necessarily the label of that category. 
Hope that the trip goes well.  It should be interesting to look at that business.  Keep me posted.  --Sally 
This was great -- and I saw myself in a number of these!!  It must be too 
Sorry that I didn't get to call you on my way to the courthouse yesterday. I was conducting lots of business back and forth with the Houston office during the drive and just ran out of time.  We reconvene in court this morning, to have what I hope will be final deliberation on sentencing, having found the guy guilty on both counts,  (Prior to the start of a trial, the defendant must choose either judge or jury to administer the sentence if the defendant is found guilty - he chose the jury.)  I am in the office now for an 8:30 meeting with Jeff Skilling regarding the upcoming Associates PRC meeting, to which I am a rep.  If I don't get a chance to reach you today, I will call during my commute tomorrow.  --Sally By the way, I thought that when I put ""Energy Executive"" as my occupation on the jury summons form, that I would be deemed to be too conservative and too corporate to be chosen for the jury.  Not the case!  In fact, Mark Koenig (Enron's EVP of Investor Relations) was summoned for jury duty on Tuesday as well, and he too was chosen to be on a different jury!  The whole thing is actually very fascinating - just bad timing for me to be out so much this week.  But then, there never is a good time. Mike Jordan 11/29/2000 06:06 AM 
Sally It must be your honest face  - I never get picked as I always look like I am on the extreme end of a right wing law and order party/movement  -ie serious penalties for parking tickets etc. I am not like that but it is just a porr perception !! Look forward to the call otherwise we can catch up later Mike Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
I had to report for jury duty today (along with 500 others from Harris County), and to my surprise I was selected to be a juror in a felony case. The case will continue on Wednesday, so our scheduled time for a conference call may not work.  I will try to reach you from my car while I am on my way in for jury duty - probably around 8:30 or 9:00 Houston time. 
Can't remember at this point what the question was!  Thanks for following up -- I will call you if I remember.  --Sally Rebecca Ford 07/26/2000 05:20 PM 
Hi Sally, The other day you stopped by my desk to ask me a question, but then you had to leave suddenly.  Did you still need to ask me something?  I just wanted to follow up with you. Thank you, Becky 
Did you mean to send that e:mail to me?  It was Greek to me, and I assume that the Sally it was meant for was that Sally Conover.  Feels like a Monday, 
The following persons will be in attendance at 11:30 am in EB50M on July 21st for lunch, in addition to the two of you: Enron Employees: Shawn Cumberland - President and COO, CALME (UT BBA; UT JD) Sally Beck - VP, ENA and Global Risk Management Operations (UT BBA; UT MBA) Brent Price - VP, ENA (UT PPA) David Mitchell - Associate (recent grad - UT MBA) Jennifer Martinez - Associate (recent grad - UT MBA) Luis Mena - Analyst (recent UT grad) Catherine Pernot (recent UT grad) Lexi Elliott - Analyst Program - UT Recruiter Christy Young - Associate Program - UT Recruiter UT Summer Associates: Cantekin Dincerler Steven Luong Michelle Sandner Adam Thomas UT Summer Analysts: Brenton Baxter Matt Davis Eric Efron Katherine Jett Jiyeon Kim Joanna Li Dana Lipp Amy Mohan Denise Olson Neil Rajan Angelique Woods Thanks for making the time to attend.  This should be a great opportunity to meet with these UT students as they near the end of their summer internships with Enron. 
FYI - I will be out of the office for the two meetings on Wednesday this week.  I will be working in Chicago Monday and Tuesday next week.  I will be back in the office on Wednesday of next week. Todd tells me that a logo has been selected.  Can you e:mail that to me?  If not available electronically, I will see it when I am back in the office next Wednesday. If no one has stepped in to a look at hours spent on the confirmation process and opportunities that may be presented there, I will do that when I am back in the office next week.  My first move will be to sit down with Jeff Sorenson who leads the confirmation group to put some meat around the hours that James Scribner sent you.  When we look at numbers of confirmations and compare several months of data we will be better able to identify which activities were stressed by increased business and which activities seemed to absorb increased business more easily.  I also think that Jeff will be the best source of information about ideas on streamlining, opportunities to simply life at Enron and perhaps create value externally.  All of the advances made over the last several years (auto-confirm, the DECAF system, auto-faxing, digitized signatures, document scanning, etc. ) in our confirm group have been ideas generated by the business group and led by them for implementation.  No doubt, Jeff has some good ideas on where to go next. 
I will be out of the office from Wednesday, July 26 through Friday, July 28. I am taking my older daughter on a preliminary look at colleges.  I will have my cell phone with me -- the number is 713-417-1591.   My assistant, Patti Thompson, will have hotel phone numbers where I can be reached as well. The following persons will be key contacts for trading operations while I am out: Natural Gas Operations  Brent Price   x37647   (7/31 & 8/1:  Steve Jackson x37070) Power Operations   Stacey White  x31870   (7/31 & 8/1:  Kristin Albrecht x34763) Financial Products Operations Sheila Glover  x33210 Coal, Pulp & Paper, LNG  Scott Earnest  x31746 Weather     Todd Hall    x31957 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 MPR      David Maxwell  x316983 I will be working in ENA's and MG's Chicago offices on Monday and Tuesday, July 31 and August 1.  Patti has contact numbers for me at both offices. Key contacts in Houston are those listed above, with changes noted for Gas and Power Operations on July 31 and August 1. I will be back in the Houston office on Wednesday, August 2. 
I will be out of the office from Wednesday, July 26 through Friday, July 28. I am taking my older daughter on a preliminary look at colleges.  I will have my cell phone with me -- the number is 713-417-1591.   My assistant, Patti Thompson, will have hotel phone numbers where I can be reached as well. The following persons will be key contacts for trading operations while I am out: Natural Gas Operations  Brent Price   x37647   (7/31 & 8/1:  Steve Jackson x37070) Power Operations   Stacey White  x31870   (7/31 & 8/1:  Kristin Albrecht x34763) Financial Products Operations Sheila Glover  x33210 Coal, Pulp & Paper, LNG  Scott Earnest  x31746 Weather     Todd Hall    x31957 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 MPR      David Maxwell  x316983 I will be working in ENA's and MG's Chicago offices on Monday and Tuesday, July 31 and August 1.  Patti has contact numbers for me at both offices. Key contacts in Houston are those listed above, with changes noted for Gas and Power Operations on July 31 and August 1. 
I will be in the Chicago office on Monday, July 31.  I will be sorry to miss a lunch at Brennan's!  Enjoy  it without me.  --Sally Shannon Adlong@ENRON 07/25/2000 10:51 AM 
This lunch has now been scheduled for Brennan's beginning at 11:45 am on July 31st (same date).  Please RSVP to me if you will be able to attend.  The reservations will be in Julie Nickell's name in the Map room.  Thanks. Julie Nickell@ENRON 07/21/00 01:11 PM 
In order to express our sincere appreciation to all of you who worked so diligently with us during the North America SAP project, we would like to invite you to join us for lunch at Ruggle's on Westheimer on Monday, July 31st.  Please RSVP to Shannon Adlong at 36048.  Should this date not accommodate your schedules, we will endeavor to find another suitable alternative. Thank you. 
FYI 
Thanks for your prompt response.  I really hope that you can convince Mark Taylor that transferring the financial confirmations to Calgary is the right thing to do.  As you recall, we have been down the road of improving the service to Calgary previously.  This seems to work in the short term, but as soon as there is turnover in the group, which unfortunately seems to occurs regularly, the service level starts to drop.  I would like you to consider the following arguments in favor of transferring this function to Calgary when you meet with Mark. First, when the recommendation first came out to transfer to financial confirmations to Calgary, Mark Taylor's concern was our legal staff.  At that time, we had one attorney  who did not have expertise in the financial area. We now have three very competent attorneys.  Greg Johnston has spent time in Houston and has recently attended an ISDA training course. Second, there are problems with the confirmations that are prepared by Houston and with the process itself.  At the time of the Project Doorstep audit, we provided you with a list of confirmations that had not been sent out after we had approved them.  As you saw from my memo, confirmations are periodically sent out without our review.  Also, we have found mistakes in the confirmations themselves, including the contract date referred to in the confirmation.  The first two issues cause me a lot of concern.  Some of the confirmations sent out without our review were wrong, which is a big problem.  We had a large number of confirmations that were never sent out, which is even a bigger problem. Third, there is no real additional control in the process by having Houston generate the confirmations.  If you think about what the process is, the transactions are done in Calgary, we fax the deal sheets to Houston, the confirmation is generated using a template that has been pre-approved by legal, we review and approve the confirmation and execute them on-line if done by Enron Canada Corp., or send an e-mail if the Enron Entity is Enron North America.  Houston faxes the confirms to the counterparty.  If the counterparty is a trading company, Houston follows up on the status of execution.  For all other entities, the Calgary office is now doing the follow-up.  All these transactions are currently settled out of the Calgary office.  If the transactions were done in Calgary, we would be using the same pre-approved templates that Houston is using.  It is not clear to me where there is any additional control by having the confirmations done in Houston, or, conversely, why there is any additional risk in having Calgary prepare our own financial confirmations.  If there is some perception that an element of risk exists by having Calgary prepare the financial confirmations, why are we allowed to prepare the physical confirmations? Fourth, there is a duplication of effort by having the preparation done in Houston while the review process is done in Calgary.  Currently, Houston has staff handling the Calgary transactions.  Because the confirmations are reviewed and approved here, I have similar staff who print the confirmations, route them for review, update TAGG, notify Houston when the review is complete, and then follow-up with either Houston or the counterparty on issues or execution.  We are currently following up on all non-trading company financial confirmations.  So, we are both printing and reviewing the transactions, following up with the counterparties, and filing these documents.  As I stated before, Calgary could assume full responsibility for the financial confirmations without adding any staff. Fifth, there is an increase in the amount of time needed to get the confirmations to the counterparty by having the preparation done in Houston. Because of the number of times the information has to go back and forth, the confirmations rarely get to the counterparty within 24 hours of the transaction being done.  We feel this time line could be met if we did the financial confirmations here.  This reduces risk for Enron. Finally, because we are a small office, I need the opportunity to develop my existing employees so that they don't feel that they need to leave the company in order to broaden their knowledge base.  Given the skill sets of the documentation group, it is difficult for them to move into other areas such as risk, logistics, or accounting, so it is important that I am able to keep them challenged within the documentation group.  Because we review the confirmations, the basic understanding of the financial transactions already exists.  However, I know that my employees would appreciate having full accountability and responsibility for this function, and have the opportunity to develop more expertise in the area of financial confirmations. As a final note, I report to you.  I am fully accountable to you for ensuring that all the necessary controls are in place to handle this function properly.  It would mean a lot to me, as well as the documentation staff, to get your vote of confidence in making the case to legal to transfer this function to Calgary.  Mark Taylor has never met me or my staff, yet I get the impression that he doesn't think we are capable of handling this function.  I hope that you will be able to set him straight on this.  He just needs to look at the results of our annual audits to see the level of competency that exists here. If you have any questions or need any additional clarification on anything in this memo, please let me know.  As you can see, the Calgary office feels very strongly about this issue, including Rob Milthorp and Peter Keohane.  Please let me know how your meeting with Mark goes. Thanks, Peggy Enron North America Corp. 
I got your message and I have asked Brent to get with me when he is back in the office on Friday ( he has been in New York re: MG since Monday night). Together we will do two things:  (1) devise a foolproof plan to insure an excellent level of service to Calgary starting immediately, and (2) work with Mark Taylor to understand his concerns over the movement of confirmation preparation to Calgary and to eliminate his concerns.  We will keep you posted on both items.  --Sally Peggy Hedstrom 07/19/2000 12:02 PM 
Just so that you are aware, we continue to have problems with the financial confirm process from Houston.  On more than one occasion, confirmations have been sent to our counterparties prior to review by Calgary.  Attached is the most recent one.   We have been assured over and over that this will not happen again, however, it continues to happen.  Luckily, this confirmation went out without any errors in it.  I know that you are very busy, but  is there any way that you can make it a priority to get resolution on moving the financial confirmations to Calgary. 
To my surprise, I was chosen today to sit on a jury to hear a felony charge. The judge believes that we can conclude the trial by end of the day on Wednesday or perhaps on Thursday.  I will be back here working after trial hours in the office and checking voice mail messages during breaks in the proceedings.  I will be back full time as soon as my civic duty is fulfilled! Enron is well presented in the court system over the next few days.  I sat by Mark Koenig in the jury assembly room today, and he too was chosen to serve 
The following persons will be in attendance at 11:30 am in EB50M on July 21st for lunch, in addition to the two of you: Enron Employees: Shawn Cumberland - President and COO, CALME (UT BBA; UT JD) Sally Beck - VP, ENA and Global Risk Management Operations (UT BBA; UT MBA) Brent Price - VP, ENA (UT PPA) David Mitchell - Associate (recent grad - UT MBA) Jennifer Martinez - Associate (recent grad - UT MBA) Luis Mena - Analyst (recent UT grad) Catherine Pernot (recent UT grad) Lexi Elliott - Analyst Program - UT Recruiter Christy Young - Associate Program - UT Recruiter UT Summer Associates: Cantekin Dincerler Steven Luong Michelle Sandner Adam Thomas UT Summer Analysts: Brenton Baxter Matt Davis Eric Efron Katherine Jett Jiyeon Kim Joanna Li Dana Lipp Amy Mohan Denise Olson Neil Rajan Angelique Woods Thanks for making the time to attend.  This should be a great opportunity to meet with these UT students as they near the end of their summer internships 
Sounds like fun, and you are definitely planning ahead! 
FYI - My reply to Peggy 
I got your message and I have asked Brent to get with me when he is back in the office on Friday ( he has been in New York re: MG since Monday night). Together we will do two things:  (1) devise a foolproof plan to insure an excellent level of service to Calgary starting immediately, and (2) work with Mark Taylor to understand his concerns over the movement of confirmation preparation to Calgary and to eliminate his concerns.  We will keep you posted on both items.  --Sally Peggy Hedstrom 07/19/2000 12:02 PM 
Just so that you are aware, we continue to have problems with the financial confirm process from Houston.  On more than one occasion, confirmations have been sent to our counterparties prior to review by Calgary.  Attached is the most recent one.   We have been assured over and over that this will not happen again, however, it continues to happen.  Luckily, this confirmation went out without any errors in it.  I know that you are very busy, but  is there any way that you can make it a priority to get resolution on moving the financial confirmations to Calgary. 
I got your message and I have asked Brent to get with me when he is back in the office on Friday ( he has been in New York re: MG since Monday night). Together we will do two things:  (1) devise a foolproof plan to insure an excellent level of service to Calgary starting immediately, and (2) work with Mark Taylor to understand his concerns over the movement of confirmation preparation to Calgary and to eliminate his concerns.  We will keep you posted on both items.  --Sally Peggy Hedstrom 07/19/2000 12:02 PM 
Just so that you are aware, we continue to have problems with the financial confirm process from Houston.  On more than one occasion, confirmations have been sent to our counterparties prior to review by Calgary.  Attached is the most recent one.   We have been assured over and over that this will not happen again, however, it continues to happen.  Luckily, this confirmation went out without any errors in it.  I know that you are very busy, but  is there any way that you can make it a priority to get resolution on moving the financial confirmations to Calgary. 
How do we get the right focus on support for Calgary?  Mark Taylor wanted to hold up transferring confirm responsibility to Calgary, so we still need to provide excellent service to them.  While I can appreciate that Diane is out, that should actually be a red flag to us to pay even closer attention to the Calgary stuff.  Every screw up looks big to them, and they can't understand how mistakes continue to happen.  While I know that they can't appreciate the vast number of transactions that the group is currently handling, we still need to be able to deliver top notch service.  Unfortunately, we stub our toe enough with Calgary that they view of our operation is one that delivers pretty poor to average service.  That is a terrible internal PR issue.  Let's put our heads together on not just the confirm issue but all of our dealings with Calgary so that we quickly turn around our error rate (and/or their perceptions) and  can sustain excellent service. I am copying Susan because she has dealt recently with an issue brought to our attention by  Rob Milnthorp (president of Enron Canada).  She responded to Rob quickly and handled things professionally, so she may not have shared the details with you at the time.  But now we need to look at all of our outstanding, potential or past issues with Calgary and get a solution in place.  She can fill you in on the details in that situation. Susan:  Do you have any ideas on how we can reshape our image with Calgary? 
Just so that you are aware, we continue to have problems with the financial confirm process from Houston.  On more than one occasion, confirmations have been sent to our counterparties prior to review by Calgary.  Attached is the most recent one.   We have been assured over and over that this will not happen again, however, it continues to happen.  Luckily, this confirmation went out without any errors in it.  I know that you are very busy, but  is there any way that you can make it a priority to get resolution on moving the financial confirmations to Calgary. 
I have been traveling on business and also have just returned from vacation, so I have not yet seen the proposal that you referenced.  I will hopefully discover it as I go through my inbox in the next few days. ConfirmCorp@aol.com on 07/19/2000 10:46:46 AM 
Dear Sally: I hope you have had an opportunity to review the proposal I sent over to Connie Sutton regarding Confirmation Clearing Corporation.  I am hoping Enron will seriously consider moving to an electronic confirmation process and reap all the benefits automation has to offer.  As an industry leader, this would be another innovative move by Enron. If you would like to discuss the possibilities, I would appreciate the opportunity to visit with you. Please call or respond via e-mail at your convenience.  Thank you. Sincerely, Chris Papousek President, Confirmation Clearing Corporation (713)823-4800 
Thanks for including me.  Congratulations on Emily.  I know that you and she will be getting used to one another over the next few weeks, and that sleep will definitely be a scarce commodity.  Those first few weeks can be both wonderful and terrible at the same time.  Savor the baby stage as much as you can, and before you know it Emily will be cooing and responding to you in a way that makes all of the sleepless nights just melt away.  Enjoy your new role as mom -- it is a wonderful, life-long experience!  --Sally 
This is my first day back from vacation.  We need to augement e:mail so that requests sent when someone is on vacation can be routed elsewhere if urgent. This is request is approved. Why are there so many different formats for granting systems access?  Some have an approval button, some don't.  You requested a return e:mail.  It seems as if each time I look at one of these it is different.  The status button and detail button below contain no information. Information Risk Management 07/17/2000 11:36 AM 
Below you will find a copy of a request that is awaiting your approval. Please advise us as to your approval or rejection of this request by way of email. I thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. Leola Barnett IRM X37965 
Flight times are good.  Please insure that my hotel reservation is for a non-smoking room.  Thanks.  --Sally Joel Juarez <Jjuarez@plnrs.com> on 11/28/2000 04:49:24 PM 
Per Sally's instructions - I am forwarding this document to you. Patti x39106 
Attached is a preliminary draft of the findings and proposed action steps for the MG - London controls review that was conducted this past week.  These findings arise solely out of discussions with key MG personnel who are listed within the attachment.  AA&Co. are still in the process of conducting the deal test which should be completed by Monday.  Any significant findings as a result of the deal test will then be added to this document.  Please review and direct any questions or comments back to me or Tim Poullain-Patterson by Monday, July 10.  Thanks. 
James, I didn't see your name on the distribution for this so I'm forwarding it to you. Patti 
James Scribner is scheduled to attend: Wellhead to Burner Tip Class Days and Times: 7/18/2000  08:00:00 AM - 05:00:00 PM 7/19/2000  08:00:00 AM - 12:00:00 PM If James Scribner is unable to attend this class, the registration must be canceled by 5:00 p.m. on July 13, 2000 to prevent a charge of $ 600 to your RC number. Thank you for your support in providing quality and cost effective development opportunites at Enron. Please call the Development Center Team at 713-853-0357 if you have any questions. 
Today's ENA PRC was a pre-ranking session for VP's.  All VP's will be reviewed at an Enron-wide PRC scheduled for early August.  Representatives at that Enron PRC from ENA will be Janet Dietriech, Dave Delainey, John Lavorato and Greg Piper.  They will use information from today's ENA PRC meeting in representing you at the Enron-wide VP PRC.  I have provided copies of your accomplishments and consolidated supervisor feedback forms to Dave Delainey for reference during that process. Your reviews will be given after the Enron-wide VP PRC, and will not be completed before the end of July.  I will schedule an August date with you for your review as soon as I know the exact date of the final PRC meeting. Separately, you both should sign up for the Executive Influence and Impact course that is required of VP's.  I thought that the course was very good. All VP's are strongly encouraged to complete this course.  It is a 2 or 3 day course that is offered every month or two here in Houston.  I would contact Dick Amiable to inquire on how to sign up for this. 
I will be hosting a cookout at my home for OU summer interns, recently hired OU grads and the OU recruiting team on Sunday, July 30th in the late afternoon.  More details will follow soon, but I wanted to let you know the date so that you can hold this on your calendar. I will look forward to hopefully seeing all of you there.  And my husband 
Thanks for the update.  I am confident that with leadership from you and attention from Bryce that AEC will be satisfied soon.  --Sally Susan Harrison 07/07/2000 09:10 AM 
I wanted to provide an update on our progress with AEC.  Bryce Baxter and his team members have been in contact with Mike Bennett and Bill Hogue to understand their needs.  We have provided the initial information they requested (i.e., one month of data), and are awaiting their approval before completing the analysis on the remaining months.  I am confident that we have established clear points of contact within Settlements for Mike and Bill and we will continue to work on solidifying the relationship. Please let me know if you have any questions. Susan 
Rob:  Let me know if you get feedback from AEC that does not indicate that they are getting what they need.  Susan and Bryce are both very capable and responsive, so I am confident that AEC's questions can be resolved quickly. --Sally 
I wanted to provide an update on our progress with AEC.  Bryce Baxter and his team members have been in contact with Mike Bennett and Bill Hogue to understand their needs.  We have provided the initial information they requested (i.e., one month of data), and are awaiting their approval before completing the analysis on the remaining months.  I am confident that we have established clear points of contact within Settlements for Mike and Bill and we will continue to work on solidifying the relationship. Please let me know if you have any questions. Susan 
Please join us for an informal lunch on Friday, July 21st in the dining room in EB50M.   Rick Causey, Enron's executive lead for the Analyst Program, and David Haug, Enron's executive lead for the Associates Program, have been invited to join us as well.  We are interested in renewing acquaintances with those of you whom we met on campus and in getting to know those of you whom we did not see in the interview process.  We hope that you are enjoying your summer assignments at Enron and we look forward to the opportunity to visit over lunch. 
Today was the final ENA PRC.  Relative ranking results up through the Senior Director level are final.  You and your management team can begin the process of giving performance reviews to your employees.  I spoke with Sheila Walton today to inquire about an expected time frame for completing and conducting the employee reviews.  She indicated that the target completion date should be the end of July. Promotions will be effective August 1st.  It is Dave Delainey's intent to announce ENA promotions sometime after he returns from vacation on July 24. This drives the end of July target completion date for reviews.   I do not yet know if Delainey wants all ENA promotions to be announced in a single memo, or if each group within ENA will prepare such a memo.  I will keep you updated on this as I get direction from him. Please note the following change since our Energy Operations PRC in June.  In order to place focus on the qualitative feedback during this mid-year review process, we will not share performance clusters with employees when conducting their reviews.   It is very important for all of us to be consistent in this process, so please communicate this to all in your groups who will be giving performance reviews.  It is important to note, however, that the content of an employee's review should be consistent with our view of that employee's relative ranking.  In other words, an employee in the Satisfactory category should not be given a review that simply states that the employee is doing a great job.   Clearly, a large number of employees performed at a higher level than those employees in the Satisfactory category, so the feedback to that employee should include some specific areas of improvement needed in order for the employee to make a stronger impact in the organization, help you achieve the groups goals, etc. Also please note the following: Performance reviews for anyone in the Satisfactory, Needs Improvement or Issues categories must be reviewed by HR prior to these reviews being given to the employees.  This will ensure that our feedback is commensurate with the relative performance of that employee.  (This has been the stated process for the bottom two categories, and we are adding Satisfactory to this process as well.) Please remember to include a more experienced member of your management team, yourself, or an HR professional in reviews being conducted by inexperienced members of your management team, or those management team members where you have a concern over their ability or willingness to deliver candid and perhaps tough performance feedback.  I believe that we have spent some time in identifying these situations.  I ask your help to ensure that we follow through on this commitment. Thanks for all of your efforts in making this mid-year PRC process a meaningful one. 
Just a reminder for Monday to get this for me.  Too bad they didn't deliver these!  Thanks.  --Sally 
Hello, my name is Gwendolyn Gray.  I am in the Associate/Analysts Human Resources Department.  Your PRC Binders are ready to be picked up and are located in EB 1197.  I will be in my location until 5:30 today and all day on Monday, July 10.  Thanks in advance. 
Is there anything that I can do to help you and Jo?  Tyler has school on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but my nanny is at home with him on the other days. Would it help for her to take Albert?  --Sally Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 11/28/2000 05:46 PM 
Unfortunately she's developed pnuemonia - she's in Conroe Medical Center. She's pretty stable - fluid on the longs. Thanks for your concern, I'll keep you posted. B. 
Brenda:  I mentioned to Tom that I will be on vacation the week of July 10, so I will not attend the July 12th meeting.  Please remind him of that. Thanks. 07/07/2000 03:30 PM Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON 07/07/2000 03:30 PM 07/07/2000 03:30 PM 
FYI (location change to next weeks meeting): Our weekly CommodityLogic Team meeting will be held in EB 30C1 on Wednesday from 10am - 11am. If you have any questions or will be UNABLE to attend, please feel free to send me an e-mail or call me. Thanks, Brenda x31914 
I heard from Andrew regarding the status of a business continuity plan. Attached is a short presentation that he sent me that I thought you would like to see.  Any interest in meeting with Andrew to get more detail?  I plan to get with him.  Let me know and I will be glad to set something up. 
Sally, As a follow up to your call yesterday, attached please find a powerpoint point presentation that outlines the business continuity options we are outlining and trying to get some cost estimates on.  For the more localized problems, we are working with the infrastructure group to develop a crisis management reporting structure so that accurate information is reported and the right personnel are notified and deployed.  The latter effort, however, does little to mitigate the larger risk. Thanks, Andrew 3-6665 
Just wanted to let you know where we will be over the next week.  I am still at the office hoping to get away before dinner so that I can head home and pack. I will call when we are back in Houston on Sunday, July 16.  Mom and Dad, hope that you have fun if you are going on your trip!  Love, Sally Saturday, July 8, 2000 Holiday Inn - Covington, LA Telephone:  504-893-3580 Confirmation #:  68123379 Sunday - Saturday AM July 9-15, 2000 Beachside II Condominium Unit #4300 Sandestin Resort Destin, FL Telephone:  850-267-4300 Saturday PM , July 15, 2000 Holiday Inn - Lafayette, LA Telephone:  800-942-4868 Confirmation #:  68127270 SALLY'S CELL PHONE: 713-417-1591 DAVID'S CELL PHONE: 713-299-1436 
Just a reminder about my being on vacation next week.  I also wanted to let you know that I gave your names as contacts while I am out!  --Sally 
I will be out of the office on vacation from Monday, July 10 through Friday, July 14.  Patti Thompson, my assistant (x39106), has telephone numbers where I can be reached if needed.  In my absence, please contact the following persons in Houston with questions.  Peggy Hedstrom is the appropriate contact in Calgary. Natural Gas Operations  Brent Price   x37647 Power Operations   Kristin Albrecht  x34763 Financial Products Operations Sheila Glover  x33210 Coal, Pulp & Paper, LNG  Scott Earnest  x31746 Weather     Todd Hall    x31957 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 MPR      Todd Hall   x31957 I will be back in the office on Monday, July 17. 
As mentioned, I will be out on vacation next week.  This contact list should be helpful if you need anything while I am out.  --Sally 
I will be out of the office on vacation from Monday, July 10 through Friday, July 14.  Patti Thompson, my assistant (x39106), has telephone numbers where I can be reached if needed.  In my absence, please contact the following persons in Houston with questions.  Peggy Hedstrom is the appropriate contact in Calgary. Natural Gas Operations  Brent Price   x37647 Power Operations   Kristin Albrecht  x34763 Financial Products Operations Sheila Glover  x33210 Coal, Pulp & Paper, LNG  Scott Earnest  x31746 Weather     Todd Hall    x31957 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 MPR      Todd Hall   x31957 I will be back in the office on Monday, July 17. 
Lunch on August 2nd works well for me.  I have it on the calendar.  I am planning a cook-out at my house on Sunday, July 30th for Enron summer interns from OU and recent hires from OU.  Mike McConnell and his wife plan to join us.  If you are in Houston, I hope that you will be able to join us too. Probably around 5:00 PM -- invitations should go out in the next few days with specifics.  Wanted to get the date on your calendar, however.  Let me know if you will be in town.  --Sally ""Jacobs, Ted K"" <tjacobs@ou.edu> on 07/05/2000 03:54:12 PM 
Hi Sally and Mike, Talked to Lexi Elliott and she told me about you all having lunch with Blake, Clay and Michelle the other day. I know that meant alot to them and only solidified their desire to work for Enron. Thanks for taking time out of your busy schedules to meet with them. Just wanted to let you know that I am scheduled to meet with Lexi and Shelly Jones on Wednesday, August 2nd at 11:00 a.m. We will then be going to lunch. Would like for both of you to join us if possible. I will bringing Brenda Peters, who is with OU Career Services, down with me. She wanted to come down with me and see Enron and meet both Lexi and Shelly, especially Lexi, since she is the new OU contact for Enron. Brenda wants to make sure everything is on schedule for this Fall recruiting. Lexi will be coming to OU in early August to tour the campus and I will introduce her to Tim Rasnic (JC Penney Leadership Program Director) and Dean Evans along with other Department Heads in the Price College of Business. That way she should feel comfortable when Enron comes to campus in October. If you are available and would like to join us why don't you either let me know or else have your assistants contact Lexi and let her know. If you would like to suggest a time and place to meet, please feel free to do so. If you can't make lunch and need to visit with me about anything, let me know and I will arrange my schedule to meet with you. I will be in Houston that entire week making my rounds. Hope your summers have been going well and have been able to spend time with your families. Look forward to hopefully having lunch on August 2nd. Take care. Ted K. Jacobs Director Energy Management The University of Oklahoma 307 West Brooks, Room 218 Norman, OK  73019-4007 405-325-0758 405-325-2096 fax E-mail: tjacobs@ou.edu Website: www.ou.edu/business/em - C.DTF 
This looks good.  Please send this wherever it should go.  Thanks. 
For your approval. Stephen 
Stephen, Attached is your expense report.  Please let me know if any revisions are required.  If no revisions are necessary, please forward to Sally for her approval.  Thank you. Kim 
Home and cell phone number are correct.  I do not have a pager.  --Sally Christie Connell@ENRON 07/05/2000 04:10 PM 
I am updating Rick Causey's contact cards. Are these still your correct #'s? H. 281-370-8568 Cell 713-417-1591 Pager ? Thank you for your response. Christie Connell 
I will be out of the office on vacation from Monday, July 10 through Friday, July 14.  Patti Thompson, my assistant (x39106), has telephone numbers where I can be reached if needed.  In my absence, please contact the following persons in Houston with questions.  Peggy Hedstrom is the appropriate contact in Calgary. Natural Gas Operations  Brent Price   x37647 Power Operations   Kristin Albrecht  x34763 Financial Products Operations Sheila Glover  x33210 Coal, Pulp & Paper, LNG  Scott Earnest  x31746 Weather     Todd Hall    x31957 DPR      Mike Moscoso  x35242 MPR      Todd Hall   x31957 I will be back in the office on Monday, July 17. 
What do these changes do to you?  --Sally 
On Friday June 30th, Unify's production performance was impacted by a large volume (30k) of replication/ configuration transactions from SAP. The mass update from SAP to Global/ Unify effected Enron's business throughout the afternoon, causing contract replication to be delayed, and missed nominations. Corrective actions taken to ensure this does not occur again: Global Replication - Move the SAP to Global/ Unify replication for Intercompany from hourly to a nightly (1:00 am) process.  As we could miss new data setup dependencies, the volume is expected to be reduced. SAP Support - SAP IT support will notify Global systems of any scheduled 'rebuilds'/ mass updates to monitor/ move the schedule during an off-peak time. Regan Smith, x39291 Manager, Unify Accounting Unify/ SAP Interface 
FYI 
http://www.goldmansachs.com/ficc/confirmations/ 
Attached are my accomplishments for the first half of 2000.  I should have had these for you on Tuesday for your PRC.  Hopefully, better late than never.  I am not certain how the coporate-wide PRC process will work in late July for VP's.  I have provided a copy of this to Dave Delainey for the ENA PRC which will take place on July 7.  I thought that I would provide you a copy as well. I will also have Patti deliver a hard copy to Sharron next week. 
Attached are my accomplishments for the first half of 2000.  I will also ask my assistant to deliver a hard copy to you on Wednesday, July 5. Let me know if you have any questions or need more information.   Thanks. 
End of July should be fine.  I am planning to be out July 26, 27 and 28, taking our 16 year-old on a tour of some college campuses before she starts her junior year.  Motivational, I hope!  --Sally Kathie Grabstald on 06/30/2000 02:48:12 PM 
Thanks for your note.  I have another profile interview to do with Mark Frevert on July 12.  At that time, we will schedule a photographer for both of you for the end of July.  Will this work for you?  If not, just let me know! Kathie 
Welcome to Enron.  I'm glad that you made the decision to come here. Hopefully, that decision will feel right to you in a very short period of time!  Look for Kristin Albrecht and Leslie Reeves in power on 31.  They know more about our power business than almost anyone on the floor.  They both report to me.  Kristin heads risk management and Leslie leads operations. They can help you on any details about our power business. My office is on the 30th floor - EB3015.  Stop by if you get the chance.  I will be moving to the 33rd floor during the week of July, actually while I am on vacation.  Have a great long weekend.  --Sally Robert Stalford@ENRON 06/30/2000 10:26 AM 
Sally, Today is my first day here in Dana's group.  My ext. is 6768.  Thanks for your help. 
I am not sure that I have a high-resolution photo.  Since I'm not sure what that is it probably means that I don't have one!  So we probably do need to schedule a photographer.  I will be in the office next week, Wednesday through Friday.  Then I will be on vacation the week of July 10th.  Let me know when the photographer will come, so that I will know what to wear! Thanks, and have a great long weekend.  --Sally Kathie Grabstald on 06/30/2000 12:51:29 PM 
Hi Sally! Thank you for your revisions.  They have been incorporated and the article is ready to go!  The Spring 2000 issue is the only one that did not have a profile.  I'm sorry that I didn't bring one of the other issues with me, but the Summer 2000 issue is set for distribution in July and it has several profiles. Yes, we do need a photo of you for your article.  Do you have a current high-resolution photo, slide or negative that we could borrow?  Please let me know if we need to send a photographer over. I know that you will be going to Florida soon.  Have a great trip! Thanks again for your timely return of the article. Kathie Grabstald 
Attached is Bob Superty's summary of the impact on the late noms today.  We do not anticipate any pipeline penalties.  On those pipes where the nom type is ""Intraday"", there may be some pipeline imbalance created for us to work through.  The logistics staff will have a lot of work to do on Thursday morning to contact customers asking them to renom on the pipes where our noms were late.  Overall, these pipelines worked well with us today. Let me know if you have any questions.  --Sally 
I have attached a quick summary of where we currently stand with our nominations as a result of the hardware problems today. Please call me if you have any questions, thanks - Bob Superty 
There are five summer interns and six recent full-time hires from OU that I will invite to the cookout at my house on Sunday, July 30th.  I asked Jody's opinion on whether or not they would like to bring along a guest, and his answer was yes.  So I will invite all to bring a spouse/guest. I thought that I would also include Lexi Elliott, the recruiter from the Analyst Program that will be covering OU.  Have you decided on the make-up of the recruiting team at OU in the fall?  If so, this might be a good event in which to include them as well.  I left you a voice mail message about James Scribner as a potential good member of the team.  Let me know your thoughts and I can include anyone else that you would like. 
Thanks for including me.  Unfortunately, I will be out of town at an offsite meeting with the ENA management team from December 13 - 16.  --Sally Sue Foust 11/28/2000 11:25 AM 
Scott and Lanette's baby is due late in January.   I hope you can attend their baby shower on Friday, December 15th.  We'll forward the location of the shower soon. Regards, Sue 
Since receiving your e:mail message last Monday on your needs in power, I have spent three (!!!) full days in PRC meetings since then.  I have shared your needs with both Todd Hall and Kristin Albrecht (my power business controller here in Houston) and have gotten their thoughts on how we could be of help.  Sorry that I keep missing your calls.  I will be meeting with 
It is too late in the day in London for me to catch you by phone today.  I will call you tomorrow and would like to throw out an idea regarding an on-going resource for operations in London.  If you are comfortable with my idea, then I can discuss it in person with Fernley while he is here this 
Let's book Friday, July 21 for this lunch.  I will work on further details. 
Thanks for the input.  It is just in time -- I attend Rick Causey's cross functional PRC for Directors and above tomorrow. I think that we have lunch coming up on the calendar on July 6.  I look 
I would like to invite you as University of Oklahoma summer interns to join me for lunch on Friday, June 30.   I have made reservations for 11:45 am at Nino's on West Dallas.   I hope that you will be able to attend and can meet me in the Enron lobby at 11:30.  We will provide transporation to and from lunch.  Please call me at x35926 as soon as possible to let me know if you can attend. Mike McConnell, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Enron NetWorks, will join us for lunch.  Many of you may have met Mike, a fellow OU grad.  He will serve as the Executive Lead for our continuing recruiting efforts at OU. Two other Enron employees will join us for lunch.  James Scribner, a Senior Director in ENA Energy Operations, recently joined Enron after seven plus years with a Fortune 500 company in Edmond, Oklahoma.  James will be helping us with our OU recruiting efforts.  Lexi Elliott, a new recruiter with Enron's Associates and Analysts Program, will be coordinating Enron's recruiting efforts in the future at OU. 
Thanks for the update.  I want to send her some flowers at the house.  Can you let Patti know if she is headed home on Friday?  Thanks.  --Sally 
FYI - This came as a surprise to me.  Didn't know whether or not you knew about GInger's departure.  --Sally 
UGH!!  I am happy for you, but know that Enron will be losing as you leave. I am pleased that the opportunity at Reliant is an exciting one for you, and I know that you will do a great job.  It has been fun to work with you, Ginger, and I too will miss that.  Best of luck to you!  --Sally 
I know that Amanda will enjoy seeing you next week.  Thanks for making some time for her.  Let's definitely schedule a return trip for the two of you with some golf/cart time! ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 06/21/2000 10:32:01 AM 
Hi, Sal.  Thanks for your message the other night.  We enjoyed seeing everyone and had fun playing with Tyler and Amanda.  (I still get scared when the lights are out - ""I see dead people"" . . . )  We'll definitely have to do the golf next time.   I like the idea of riding around in the cart! Mom told me Amanda is coming next week, so we'll do something on one of the nights next week.  Have a good day!  love, c. Cara White Community Development Coordinator USTA Texas Section 1-888-883-6388 cWhite@texas.usta.com 
Looks as if this date will work for Mike McConnell and his wife, too.  I thought that I might also invite Ted Jacobs if he plans to be in  Houston that weekend.  Do you have an e:mail address for him?  Thanks. 
I had to report for jury duty today (along with 500 others from Harris County), and to my surprise I was selected to be a juror in a felony case. The case will continue on Wednesday, so our scheduled time for a conference call may not work.  I will try to reach you from my car while I am on my way 
Thanks for the response.  I will look for your list so that I can send out invitations.  --Sally 
Thanks for your front-end research on this.  It's too bad that the training provider can't be as responsive!  In a trading organization, 2 to 3 months is an eternity.  Sounds as if they are inflexible as well.  Our audience for this training would be risk book adminstrators and traders, so 2 days away from the desk is not very workable either. After I get over my irritation at timing and inflexibility, I may want to book them for September, although with a much smaller audience than would be desireable if they insist on sticking to their 2 day method of delivery. Could I get an outline of their 2 day course to review in order to make this decision?  Thanks.  --Sally Tim O'Rourke@ENRON 06/19/2000 04:11 PM 
Sally, Angela Sprock forwarded your VM to me regarding the VAR training that you were looking to set up for your group. I've taken the liberty of getting in touch with the suppliers to talk to them about the request and their availability. As well as discussing putting on the 2 day course solely for you group, I also discussed with them the possibility of breaking it up and delivering it in shorter  modules. Although they considered this, they are insistent that the course structure, the activities and the content lend themselves better to the 2 day format. They are a very busy company, in much demand both within Enron and other companies. Their earliest available dates are: September 14-15, and September 21-22. Alternatively, they have more flexibility on dates later in the year (October onwards - but that may be less of a fit). How does this fit with your group? Let me know if you want to discuss this further Tim 36698 
Enjoy the time off!  Just let us know when that week comes who your in charge person will be.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Thanks for the offer.  I will take you up on it.  Can you get a list of recent OU grads hired at Enron?  I have the list of summer interns from OU. I thought that I would invite both full time and summer interns to the cookout. I am looking at Sunday, July 30th as possibly the best date -- probably starting about 5:00 in the afternoon.  How does that date work for you?  I assume that summer interns will still be with us then. What is your opinion on dates/friends to accompany you?  David will of course be there, and Mike McConnell and his wife will be there if the date works for them.  We can make this work either way.   Do you think that people would prefer to bring someone along, or simply attend solo.  I will take your suggestion on this one. After you get me the list of OU full timers, I will combine it with the list that I have of summer interns and we can make sure that it looks complete. Thanks for the help.  --Sally 
Bob is a good, solid player.  He won't change the world, but he is diligent about getting a prescribed job done.  I personally like Bob a lot, and am very interested in making sure that he is in the right role for him.  His wife has MS in its most severe stages.  He was a manager previously, and we jointly made the decision to reclassify him as a senior specialist in order to reduce the expectations on him in his role at work.  He needs to be able to leave work at a very reasonable hour each day in order to relieve a caregiver who is with his wife while he works.  I made a personnal commitment to him to make sure that his work load would allow a reasonable and predictable end to his work day, and as long as he is in my group I will personally make sure that works for him.  I would hope for him that if he ever considered a change that a new boss would be able to do the same. Danny contacted me about Bob, more from the standpoint of asking me what impact it would have on gas if he moved.  I suggested that Brent would be better able to address that.  I did tell Danny that the onslaught of EOL transactions has been a challenge for gas confirmations, and I am sure that they are not long on people.  I assume that Danny is following up with Brent.  --Sally Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 06/13/2000 03:47 PM 
What do you think of him? Danny suggested him. I here he has some 'issues'. I'm neither plus or negative - just fact finding. B. 
I have heard through the grapevine that you produce a weekly status report on the MG aquisition and assimilation.  Would you please include me on that distribution list effective this week?   I believe that it is assumed that Fernley Dyson will have day-to-day responsibility for this business once the aquisition is completed.  However, in my role over Global Risk Management Operations, I find myself fielding questions regarding our assessment of operations and any issues surrounding assimilation.  Brent Price, who reports to me and is on temporary assignment in the London office, has been keeping me updated on progress to date.  His return soon to Houston, however, will create a potential information gap that the weekly status report may help to fill. 
They all made me laugh out loud.  I am glad that they all were able to get up!  Thanks. ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 06/09/2000 10:22:40 AM 
I am not close enough to know Bob's exact role within the group to know the impact of the prospect of losing him.  I am forwarding this to Brent to get his assessment of the impact.  I do know that the number of deals that we do currently has skyrocketed with EOL, so I feel sure that the group is stretched right now.  Again, though, Brent would best be able to address this.  As you are probably aware, I personnally made the commitment to Bob several years ago to help in managing his workload so that he is available as needed at home for his wife.  For Bob's sake, I would want to make sure that he is in a situation where that is understood and appreciated. Thank you for contacting me first before going to Bob.  --Sally Danny Clark@EES 06/12/2000 01:24 PM 
I would like to talk with Bob Bowen about a possible position with me at EBS, but I want to get your approval before I do that.  Please call me at x39509 to discuss. Thanks dc 
This reporting tool looks very useful.  I am glad to know that you are managing with this on a regular basis.  Do we have a well-defined follow-up process to ensure that the outstanding confirms do go out soon?  This is a great tool to share with other groups that are doing confirmations.  It would be nice to have a standard format that all groups would use to track this. Have you shared this with other groups within Energy Operations that are doing confirmations?  I would include Global Products as well.  --Sally Brent A Price 06/09/2000 03:37 AM 
Looks good...everyone has done an excellent job in getting this set up and monitored. 
I think that it is a great idea to compare recommendations for promotions. Our meeting will take place on December 8th, so we can be ready to discuss promotion recommendations as early as Monday, December 11.  When would be a good time for you? The invitation to attend our December 8th meeting still stands.  I know that it is along way to come for a single meeting (although it will most likely be a fully day), but if there are other things that you could accomplish while here, it could be worth it.  --Sally Mike Jordan 11/28/2000 08:48 AM 
Sally This is great but you are right in that we probably do not have time to cross calibrate for the full global population of Risk Ops - perhaps next year. Also, from discussions with Fernley the higher grades will form part of Rick Causey's PRC ranking process - so we are left with lower risk post that ( Fernley said he would forward his note to Rick to yourself ). My remaining concern is that any promotions, particularly in the risk group, which are not matched across Houston/London or indeed between EGM London and EEL London may create people risk. Can I suggest we compare promotions from senior specialist ( up to manager ) upwards ? Hope everything is going well Mike Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
I have attached a listing of planned PRC meetings for Operations that will be held in Houston.  There will be a number of pre-review meetings that will be held over the next two weeks in preparation for an Energy Operations PRC meeting to be held on Friday, December 8th.  The pre-meetings are necessary due to the sheer size of the groups.  (In addition to the meetings detailed in this schedule, Brent's team in EGM is having pre-meetings as well.) The December 8th meeting will include all operations personnel from ENA, EGM and EIM.  We will review the results from the pre-review meetings for Senior Specialists and below.  I have asked that the results from the pre-review meetings mirror the ""preferred distribution"", which as you probably know suggests that 15% of the population will not receive a bonus and should therefore be in the bottom two categories.  Assuming that appropriate work has been done at the pre-review meetings, this review on the 8th should not be too lengthy.  We will take considerably more time as we review the managers, who will have been pre-ranked as well.  This will give us a good jumping off point for the cross calibration discussions.  We will then review and rank the directors and senior directors.  We will also be discussing suggested promotions during this meeting as well.  Finally, assuming that I still have David Oxley and Wes Colwell captive and attentive, I will discuss my suggested rankings for the three VP's who report to me.  (We will of course pare down the list of attendees as we move up the ladder on levels that we are reviewing -- initial make up of the December 8th PRC is me and my direct reports within ENA, Brent and his direct reports within EGM and Brenda Herod from EIM.)  I have also extended an invitation to Louise Kitchen to attend the December 8th meeting.  I do not know yet if she will attend. Do you have some suggestions for cross-calibrating on a global basis this year?  I think that next year we can put some plans in place early in the year to help facilitate this.  Would you like to attend the meeting here in Houston on December 8th?  Is there a planned meeting in London that would make sense for me to attend?  Let me know your thoughts. -Sally Mike Jordan 11/24/2000 04:28 AM 
Sally I have been speaking to Cindy Horn ( works for Scott here in London ) about checking ratings / promotions across the two groups in London ( EGM and EEL ) which raised concerns that this might duplicate some work done on cross calibration done by yourself. Can I ask what are the plans? 
I will be out of the office after noon on Friday, June 9, headed to the hill country to pick up one of my daughters from camp.  I will not attend the Friday afternoon meeting.  You will be able to reach me on my cell phone, 
Approved.  Please process. Thanks, Sally Beck 
Hi, Mike.  It is almost 2 pm Houston time as I am reading your message, so my hope is that you have already headed home today.  I would love to visit with you.  Would it work for us to talk at 9 am (3 pm London time) on Friday? Another good time for us to talk my be during my commute into the office.  I would expect to be in my car from about 7:00 to 8:00 am (Houston time) tomorrow.  My car phone number is 713-417-1591.  A few weeks ago I put together a list of key individuals for you to meet when you do come to Houston.  Once you have scheduled a trip, my offer still stands to set up these meetings for you.  It may be easier for my assistant to coordate these things in Houston than for you assistant to attempt that from London, given the time difference. I will look forward to speaking with you.  I understand that your value in the office is already felt.  --Sally Mike Jordan 06/08/2000 07:45 AM 
Sally I feel I already know you having had the benefit of sitting next to Brent for the last few months- but I realise I have been impolite in not organising a call just to introduce myself and arrange dates for a visit to Houston. Additionally Brent, Shona and I have spent some excellent time on the subject of Internal Control Enivronment / Operational Risk / Doorstep and I wanted to agree potential next steps with you. Do you have anytime today / tomorrow ? Regards Mike 
Buried with Shankman today.  I will e:mail you tomorrow. 
Thanks for the info on your trip.  Have a great time -- I will be anxious to hear about the presentation in Natchez.  Love, Sally SueW2@aol.com on 06/07/2000 10:29:03 AM 
Hi Cindy and Sally, Before I forget here are the phone numbers where we can be reached for the next several days: June 8th and 10th La Quinta in Alexandria, LA 318 442 3700 June 9th Monmouth Plantation Nachez 1-800-828-4531 We will be in Natchez until later in the afternoon on the 10th. Mom 
I meant to send this to you.  --Sally 
Thanks for confirming Mark's participation.  Mary Solmonson, one of my direct reports, will be sending information to your attention on the following: Specifics on location of meeting at Rice Hotel Attendee list (names, titles, operating companies) Brief background on Mary Solmonson's Global Database Management Group Suggested  talking points for Mark's talk Agenda for the meeting We will be sure to get this informaiton to you by Friday of this week, so that you can provide Mark with a copy when he is in the London office on Monday. Thanks for your help--Sally Nicki Daw@ENRON 06/06/2000 11:30 AM 
Just to confirm that Mark Frevert has blocked out 9am-10am on Friday, 16th June for the internal conference you are arranging.  He said that you will be sending over further details by the end of this week, would you mind sending them to me so that I can pull them off for his return on Monday? Thank you Nicki (+ 44 20 7783 5457) 
Thanks for confirming Mark's participation.  Mary Solmonson, one of my direct reports, will be sending information to your attention on the following: Specifics on location of meeting at Rice Hotel Attendee list (names, titles, operating companies) Brief background on Mary Solmonson's Global Database Management Group Suggested  talking points for Mark's talk Agenda for the meeting We will be sure to get this informaiton to you by Friday of this week, so that you can provide Mark with a copy when he is in the London office on Monday. Thanks for your help--Sally Nicki Daw@ENRON 06/06/2000 11:30 AM 
Just to confirm that Mark Frevert has blocked out 9am-10am on Friday, 16th June for the internal conference you are arranging.  He said that you will be sending over further details by the end of this week, would you mind sending them to me so that I can pull them off for his return on Monday? Thank you Nicki (+ 44 20 7783 5457) 
We will look forward to seeing you on the 17th.  Glad we could work out a date. ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 06/06/2000 11:19:12 AM 
HI, Sal.  You ARE correct:  we would be coming the weekend of the 17th/18th. We'll leave Austin noonish on Saturday (I have a rowing lesson Saturday morning!) and probably leave Houston mid-afternoon on Sunday.  Glad it still works for you.   We'll look forward to seeing you guys and the new digs. Love, C. 
I left a voice mail message for Dave Delainey this morning asking for clarification around the LNG business.  As soon as I hear back from him I will let you know, and then based on that info we can decide on best next steps. Brent A Price 06/05/2000 09:18 PM 
The only conversation I have had with Jeff regarding this topic was when I was in Houston and he had inquired as to when I was returning, stating that he was going to need some help in integrating another business within Gas Trading (and alluded to the possibility of it being Liquids related).  My thoughts are that it would need to be supported out of my group since it is going to roll up to Jeff.  Do you want me to set up a conference call with you, Scott Earnest and myself to discuss?  Subsequent to that we should probably have a conference call with Jeff to get specifics.  Let me know what I need to do on this. Brent Enron North America Corp. 
Scott Earnest announced in the staff meeting today that in a meeting he had earlier today with Jeff Shankman and Vince Kaminiski that Jeff announced that he had gotten the nod from Mark Frevert to manage the LNG book of business. (This sentence structure is bad, but you get the drift.)  That is probably what Shankman has alluded to in terms of increased responsibility.  I will assume that is in addition to gas, but I don't know that for sure. Scott has been working on setting up the risk books for LNG, working closely over the last several weeks with Vince Kaminski.  We need to talk about this business and the best way to support it.  Have you had any conversations with Jeff on this? 
I interviewed Analyst/Associate candidates in the office on Saturday, as did four other directors/senior directors from Energy Operations.   I completed the evaluations of the four candidates that I interviewed and submitted those, but was unable to stay for the decision meeting after lunch due to commitments to attend a funeral.  I talked with Ted Bland this morning and he suggested that I provide you with a list of candidates that could be a fit in Energy Operations. Analysts Tara Piazze - potential fit in one of my risk management operations teams Joseph Piotrowski - AA consulting background; would be a good fit for my operations team focused on EOL (these are ENA employees) -- I need to add more  strength to this group Charles Ames - currently works in back office for a brokerage firm; wants  to trade; would like to have him in risk to learn the business and Enron's risk books;  we  could immediately benefit from his background, while he learns Enron and how we manage risk; then he could add even more value in moving to a trading  role, if appropriate Better Fits as Direct Hires (not analyst or associate, based on work experience and fit) Mike Perun - VP of small bank; Ted brought him in with my group in mind; two of my directors interviewed him on Saturday; we'd like to consider him as a direct hire Jason Sukenik- Undergrad and masters degrees in accounting, plus MBA; could be good fit as direct hire in as manager/director based on experience Associates Ryan Ngo - I believe that Kevin Presto suggested him for my group Adele Pickens - She's on my list; need to research interviewers comments who suggested my group for an assignment for her (I don't think that anyone from Energy Operations interviewed him or her) Jennifer Bagwell - Apparently remarked to two interviewers that she did not want to trade; would like to see if there is a fit for her in managing risk or operations Let me know about next steps in this process.  I would be glad to talk about 
I got the memo from Naomi that you sent.  First, who is Doug Imrie?  Does he have a strong background in trading operations?  Will he be  able to coordinate effective reviews from a controls perspective, and will he be able to be the front-runner on how MG runs its business so that we will get a jump start on how best to assimilate the business?   I think that this effort should be much broader than deal testing.  It should encompass assessing people, processes, controls, systems support, etc.  To do this quickly and effectively will require persons who are knowledgeable about daily trading operations.   I don't know Naomi's background, but I wonder if she will be the right person to lead one of these efforts since she does not work in operations on a daily basis. Patrick Conner left me a message today to be certain that we are plugged in with an appropriate team from ENA to review the Chicago and New York offices.  From the sound of Naomi's memo, it looks as if Andy Cornfield is assume to have the US responsibility. Again, I don't know Andy. Should we circle the wagons and develop a plan for doorstep reviews that includes some others in the process, particularly those that have been involved in some doorstep reviews to date and those that have daily operational experience?  I have also mentioned Shona as a good resource as 
Scott Earnest announced in the staff meeting today that in a meeting he had earlier today with Jeff Shankman and Vince Kaminiski that Jeff announced that he had gotten the nod from Mark Frevert to manage the LNG book of business. (This sentence structure is bad, but you get the drift.)  That is probably what Shankman has alluded to in terms of increased responsibility.  I will assume that is in addition to gas, but I don't know that for sure. Scott has been working on setting up the risk books for LNG, working closely over the last several weeks with Vince Kaminski.  We need to talk about this business and the best way to support it.  Have you had any conversations with 
We willl consider that a rain check.  Just let know in a cooler month when you will be around and I know that David will make his schedule work to play. Separately, I didn't get time to speak with you individually when I was in Calgary the last time.  If you have a few minutes amidst the SAP training while you are in Houston, I would love to visit face to face to hear from your perspective how your interactions with my Houston operations group are going and to see you have any suggestions on areas of improvement.  Just give me a call at x35926.  --Sally Laura E Scott 06/05/2000 03:24 PM 
Sally, it is going to be difficult for me to golf this trip.  I have 5 days of SAP training that I can't quite figure out how I could reschedule.  Peggy and I are talking about coming back in the fall so may be when we firm up our plans we'll call you and see if your husband is available then.  Thanks so much for the invitation.  If we weren't 3 weeks away from going live on both SAP and Unify-Financial I would have moved heaven and earth to make it happen!! 
We have lunch scheduled for June 22, according to my calendar.  I am looking forward to it.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
That meeting was about my 13th of the day that began at 7:30, and that was day three of the week with that kind of scheduling.  I apologize if I seemed impatient in the meeting.  I know that you are working for the best interests of Energy Operations and  Enron.  By the end of the day I was probably looking for crisp, clear solutions to an issue that probably doesn't lend itself well to that. Why don't we set up a lunch so that you and I can have the opportunity to talk separate from immediate issues at hand?  I will have Patti get a date on the calendar.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
I didn't know that you were talking to Jennifer.  I had put her on the list of attendees at last Thursday's meeting with Tom Gros.  He had asked about someone being included that had been involved with Enron Online, I felt that she might be perfect to be involved in Networks with her exposure to EOL.  I don't know whether or not you realized that she was in the room for that conference call.  What is she going to do for you in gas?  We may be hardpressed to find another strong candidate for the Networks project who has been as involved with EOL.  --Sally 
Brent Price just stole Jennifer Denny - no discussion or anything.  So I obviously will get Scott Mills in return! Louise 
I didn't know about this one.  I'm going to follow up with Brent on this one and I will get back to you in a day or so.  We'll save the Scott Mills discussion for a later date! On another note, I enjoyed lunch today.  Let me know when you want to get out of the building again sometime.  --Sally Louise Kitchen 06/05/2000 04:59 PM 
Brent Price just stole Jennifer Denny - no discussion or anything.  So I obviously will get Scott Mills in return! Louise 
My  trading operations team, under the leadership of Mary Solmonson, is sponsoring a working session on Thursday and Friday, June 15 and 16 in the ballroom at the Rice.   Mary leads the team that manages Global Databases, our global contract, counterparty and facilities databases that create the common platform that facilitates the consolidation of information for credit aggregation, risk exposure, customer information, feeds to SAP for financial reporting, etc.    In addition to managing these databases, Mary has harnessed information from these databases in a new way to create an effective prospecting tool for use by originators and traders.  This tool can help measure and increase coverage by industry segments.  This project, Entelligence, has been endorsed by Greg Whalley and Jeff Shankman and is currently under development for delivery later this quarter. We invite you to speak to the group of Enron employees from offices worldwide who will attend the working session next week.  Please let me know if you are interested and if June 15 or June 16 fits your schedule. Thanks for considering this speaking opportunity. 
Please pring attached presentation for me in color.  Thanks. 
Sally, Just wanted to pass along a copy of the update presentation that was done last week in London. It highlights achievements to date, key next steps, and the current timetable. Please let me know if you have any questions. Thanks, Kevin 
I did walk out of the room with the two booklets (employee profiles and pre-review rankings) that had been distributed, and I left a message with Sheila Knudsen as soon as I got back to my office on Wednesday night to let her know.  They were delivered to Sheila on Thursday morning.  Can you verify that Sheila received those from me?  Thanks.  --Sally Kimberly Rizzi 06/02/2000 05:39 PM 
Hi everyone! We asked at the meeting on Wednesday for all profile books to be left on the table so that they did not get outside the meeting.  At the end, we collected them back and 4 books seem to be missing. If you mistakenly took a profile book from the meeting please return it to me at EB1534 as soon as possible. FYI - none of the ratings books were missing so thanks! Regards, Kim 
That meeting was about my 13th of the day that began at 7:30, and that was day three of the week with that kind of scheduling.  I apologize if I seemed impatient in the meeting.  I know that you are working for the best interests of Energy Operations and  Enron.  By the end of the day I was probably looking for crisp, clear solutions to an issue that probably doesn't lend itself well to that. Why don't we set up a lunch so that you and I can have the opportunity to talk separate from immediate issues at hand?  I will have Patti get a date on the calendar.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
I still agree that this is not the time for promotion to VP.  Kristin certainly did an outstanding job in her role within ENA during the first half of the year.  I would like to see her develop a broader view across the organization and be able to be more effective in working with others and sharing her knowledge and experience before she is promoted to VP.  I guess that the one caveat that I would put out, is to wait and see if there are other names brought forth from other parts of the organization that would make it seem that Kristin should be in that pack.  --Sally Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 11/27/2000 06:21 PM 
thanks as we discussed - my feeling is to not promote to VP this time - are you cool with that still? - given that we have no other outstanding candidates for VP in her 'peer group' 
I have entered the following names into the Performance Review System as suggested reviewers: Commercial Customers Jeff Shankman Jim Fallon Gary Hickerson Direct Reports Brent Price (Business Controller -Natural Gas) Kristin Albrecht (Business Controller - Power) Todd Hall (Business Controller - Merchant Portfolio) Others Rick Causey Ted Murphy 
Happy anniversary!  I hope to leave the office soon and am planning to call you to wish you that over the phone on my way home. Not much unpacking yet -- our main focus up until Sunday morning was getting Amanda ready for camp.  There was still a good bit of painting going on this week, so this weekend I do hope to get quite a bit unpacked. We got our first letter from Amanda yesterday , and it sounds as if she is having fun.  Said that she was homesick and missed us, but was not sad.  Has some of the same girls in her cabin that she had last summer. I plan to shop this weekend for your birthday gift for Amanda.  As we discussed, she will have a continuation of her birthday when she gets back home next weekend.  So by the end of the weekend I should be able to give a total for gifts for both girls. Love, Sally SueW2@aol.com on 06/02/2000 04:03:38 PM 
Dear Sally,  Hope you are about finish up at the office and are headed home soon.  I am eager to hear how things are going at your house.  Do you have most everything back in place or were you too busy getting Amanda ready. Is Amanda having a good time again this year?  I have written her several times. I would like very much to know what I owe you for Meagan and Amanda's birthday presents, so If you have time this week-end perhaps you can give me a call.  Give that Tyler a big hug for us. Love, Mom 
Scott's name is not familiar to me and the only person from my group who is in the London office now is Brent Price.  I looked up Scott's name on our Enron People Finder, and it would appear that he is in the IT department.  I assume that he is someone who is on assignment in the UK, so I would suggest that you contact Beth Perlman in Houston who leads IT for ENA or talk with Mark Pickering in IT in London.  My role in Houston is over the trading operations groups, but does not include IT.  I wish that I could answer your specific question for you, but I think that referring you to IT will get you the answer that you need. Rachel Clifford 06/01/2000 09:44 AM 
Hi Sally I'm very sorry to bother you, but can you please connect me with a member of your team who can help me with a query on Scott Lytle's cost centre. The cost centre you provided to Tara (Project Q - 800001745) is not accepted by our UK SAP system, so we need another code asap as he has already started work here. Any assistance will be greatly appreciated. Many thanks and apologies again for bothering you with such a trivial query. Rachel 
Ditto. 
I assume that granting access for someone for whom Lorraine Becker is the supervisor should be approved by you.  I get hundreds of these, many for employees outside Energy Operations.  Thanks. --Sally 
Per your request, attached is the following: 1.  High-level organization chart for the Enron MidWest Energy Operations team 2.  Responsibility matrix/Contact list for Enron MidWest support organization (more detailed and includes RAC, Credit, etc.) Please let me know if you have any other questions or need anything else! Thanks, Carrie 
Please print for me on legal size paper.  Thanks. 
Sally, Per your request during our meeting this morning, attached is the spreadsheet with the changes we discussed.  Bryce, Lisa and myself will continue to work on the statistic updates (i.e. number of counterparties, responsible party, etc.) as we discussed.  If you have any questions, please let us know. 
Per my voice mail...somehow my intent to copy you on this didn't work. Shona's extension is 39123 and she is sitting on the 30th floor.  --Sally 
My new employee who will be working with me on global standards for operations for all trading/origination locations started with Enron yesterday.  Her name is Shona Wilson, and I do not know her extension.  She was in orientation yesterday, and I will be meeting with her today from 9:30 to 10:30 to discuss her initial assignments, of which working with India is one.   I will have her contact you later today.  Although she is new to Enron, she has had extensive experience with Price Waterhouse Coopers in internal audit, controls and process redesign for trading firms, both in the US and in Europe.  She will work with other seasoned professionals on my team to set up the infrastructure that is needed in India.   --Sally 
Wanda/Sally, Can I talk to the person sometime today or tomorrow?. Please provide me with the name and tel no. Thanks and Regards. Milind Wanda Curry@ECT 19-05-2000 08:49 PM 
I had a chance to review your presentation.  Bill and I have been working with Sally Beck, Global Energy Ops and she will identify a  resource to help insure all internal controls (specific to  trading activities) are in place in India.   As I understand the plan for coal, India will function mostly as an origination unit  with the London office being responsible for supplying the coal.  Therefore, the net Enron position will probably be carried in the London books.   However, risk books will still be required in India to determine the net  MTM  for the 3rd party sales commitments in India.  These books should include both the intercompany purchase from London  and the 3rd party sales.  The commercial group in India  will be responsible for local curves  (location (basis) specific - usually transportation costs), and energy operations (this will probably be you  initially until the trading activity has grown) will be responsible for the deal capture process (including contract administration), a settlement process and risk management administration (daily valuation and reporting of risk books).   Accounting will be responsible for the reconciliation of risk books to the general ledger and financials.    There will also be a logistics process.   The following questions need to be addressed: With the increased  coal volumes will an increase in trading limits be required? My understanding that the London coal group will be responsible for determining this and working with Ted Murphy to change the policy, if necessary. What trading activities will be performed in India vs. London? The answer to this is needed to determine the control infrastructure required for the India office. Sally's employee starts on Monday,   I will let you know who she is and arrange a call.    You can rest assured, that although this may seen complicated (and it is), Sally's Energy Ops team will be able to hold your hand all the way through this process.    It will be critical that we demonstrate the control infrastructure is in place, before we can obtain sigh-off for trading from Rick Buy. Looking forward to helping you get this ready for a July 1 start date. Thanks, Wanda Curry 
Wanda, It was nice talking to you on the conference call. Have you had a chance to review my presentation?. Your comments would be extremely helpful to me. When we setup the Risk/Credit/Accnt/MIS/Internal Control function, I want to make sure we do it RIGHT the FIRST time, keeping in mind that there is always room for improvement later. In addition, I would like to discuss with you certain thought I have on the accounting, budgeting,internal controls and internal audit areas in EIPL. Do you plan to travel to India in the near future. Please let me know. Thanks and Regards. 
I asked my new hire to suggest names of people that she knows that would be good for to consider hiring.  Here is her response.  Tony Vasut had called her and asked for this list as well.  Do you have him keyed in on our blitz effort for hiring of risk personnel?  Or is he working on some other initiative?  I have not reviewed the names nor Shona's comments in detail yet, but I wanted to pass these along for inclusion in our efforts.  --Sally 
FYI - I believe that Shona will prove to be a great asset to Enron.  We are following up on her leads for talent.  --Sally 
I have completed preliminary rankings on the attached sheet.  You had included my name, and I did not put in a preliminary rank.  Brent Price's name is missing.  I would put him in the Excellent category at this time. Let me know if you need anything else.  It is possible that I may change a few of the preliminary rankings as I get more information from my direct reports who supervise certain directors.   I will let you know.  --Sally 
Congratulations on the new role.  I think that it will be an interesting challenge and that you will do a great job.  How soon do you start?  --Sally Danny Clark@EES 05/25/2000 12:38 PM 
FYI, I've accepted the positon with EBS.  Thank you for your recommendation. dc 
I have signed up for June 1st.  There is no indication on the e:mail that you forwarded of the location for the focus group.  I assume that more details 
I have this on my calendar for September 7 and I am looking forward to it. Thanks. Charla Stuart@ENRON 05/22/2000 01:59 PM 
I just spoke with Elyse Kalmans, my boss, and she wanted me to be sure that you have the UT MBA Excellence Awards dinner on your calendar. It is scheduled for September 7th at Jeffries (in the Josephine House) at 7 p.m. in Austin, TX. Though she will contact you with additional details after she returns in August from maternity leave, she wanted me to be sure to inform you of the date. Regards, Charla 
My new employee who will be working with me on global standards for operations for all trading/origination locations started with Enron yesterday.  Her name is Shona Wilson, and I do not know her extension.  She was in orientation yesterday, and I will be meeting with her today from 9:30 to 10:30 to discuss her initial assignments, of which working with India is one.   I will have her contact you later today.  Although she is new to Enron, she has had extensive experience with Price Waterhouse Coopers in internal audit, controls and process redesign for trading firms, both in the US and in Europe.  She will work with other seasoned professionals on my team to set up the infrastructure that is needed in India.   --Sally 
Wanda/Sally, Can I talk to the person sometime today or tomorrow?. Please provide me with the name and tel no. Thanks and Regards. Milind Wanda Curry@ECT 19-05-2000 08:49 PM 
I had a chance to review your presentation.  Bill and I have been working with Sally Beck, Global Energy Ops and she will identify a  resource to help insure all internal controls (specific to  trading activities) are in place in India.   As I understand the plan for coal, India will function mostly as an origination unit  with the London office being responsible for supplying the coal.  Therefore, the net Enron position will probably be carried in the London books.   However, risk books will still be required in India to determine the net  MTM  for the 3rd party sales commitments in India.  These books should include both the intercompany purchase from London  and the 3rd party sales.  The commercial group in India  will be responsible for local curves  (location (basis) specific - usually transportation costs), and energy operations (this will probably be you  initially until the trading activity has grown) will be responsible for the deal capture process (including contract administration), a settlement process and risk management administration (daily valuation and reporting of risk books).   Accounting will be responsible for the reconciliation of risk books to the general ledger and financials.    There will also be a logistics process.   The following questions need to be addressed: With the increased  coal volumes will an increase in trading limits be required? My understanding that the London coal group will be responsible for determining this and working with Ted Murphy to change the policy, if necessary. What trading activities will be performed in India vs. London? The answer to this is needed to determine the control infrastructure required for the India office. Sally's employee starts on Monday,   I will let you know who she is and arrange a call.    You can rest assured, that although this may seen complicated (and it is), Sally's Energy Ops team will be able to hold your hand all the way through this process.    It will be critical that we demonstrate the control infrastructure is in place, before we can obtain sigh-off for trading from Rick Buy. Looking forward to helping you get this ready for a July 1 start date. Thanks, Wanda Curry 
Wanda, It was nice talking to you on the conference call. Have you had a chance to review my presentation?. Your comments would be extremely helpful to me. When we setup the Risk/Credit/Accnt/MIS/Internal Control function, I want to make sure we do it RIGHT the FIRST time, keeping in mind that there is always room for improvement later. In addition, I would like to discuss with you certain thought I have on the accounting, budgeting,internal controls and internal audit areas in EIPL. Do you plan to travel to India in the near future. Please let me know. Thanks and Regards. 
I will be out of the office for one vacation day on Monday, May 22.  My assistant, Patti Thompson, has home and cell phone numbers where I can be reached throughout the day, if needed. Primary operations contacts while I am out are as follows: DPR   Mike Moscoso   x35242 MPR   David Maxwell   x36983 Gas Operations  Susan Harrison   x33960 Power Operations Leslie Reeves   x37962 Financial Products  Sheila Glover   x33210 
According to records from the Analysts Program, the following interns will be working within Energy Operations during the summer.  The assignment stated below is as reflected in the program's spreadsheet. Name   School   Start Date Assignment Luna Carlson  University of Florida  July 5  ENA - Risk Reporting and Analysis Joshua Koenig  University of Florida  May 22  Energy Operations - Gas Operations Management Jolly Jose  University of Houston  June 5   Energy Operations - Gas Operations Management Michael Taylor  LSU    May 22  Central Desk Logistics Daniel Graham  Morehouse   May 15  ENA - Financial Settlements Angelique Woods University of Texas  May 22  ENA - Risk Management First, please respond to me today and let me know to whom the analyst will be reporting and what their responsibilities will be for the summer.  Hopefully none of this is a surprise and the appropriate arrangements have been made for desk, phone and computers for all. Secondly, please make a point of seeking out these interns and welcoming them to Enron. Finally, after I know where these analysts are placed, we will have a brief meeting with the analysts' managers and any of you under whom they will be working to discuss ideas on making the analysts assignments meaningful this 
FYI  -- Let me know who Angelic will report to and what she will be doing. Thanks. 
THANK YOU .... to those of you who attended the summer analyst info session. For those of you who couldn't attend,  the information will be delivered to you via inter-office mail. As we discussed yesterday, our goal is to ensure a quality summer for all of our interns.  To continue in those efforts we encourage you to schedule a meeting with your intern during his/her first week to: explain group/department initiatives establish roles/responsibilities and define performance expectations ALSO, PLEASE NOTE:  interns starting on Monday, May 22 will be available to report directly to their supervisors following lunch.  Due to availability and limited space, PC training will take place later in the week.  Interns that start on June 5 will report to their supervisors that afternoon following PC training. Thank you again for your time and your support.  Please contact me if you have any questions. Shelly Jones Manager, Analyst Recruiting ext. 3-0943 
Lunch probably won't work in that time frame.  I will be out on vacation on Monday.  Tuesday's lunch is a standing Risk Forum Meeting and Wednesday I will be out of the office during the lunch hour for a school function for one of my daughters.  I will check with Ted Murphy on the Tuesday Risk Forum meeting, as occassionally the meeting is cancelled.  I will get back in touch if the Tuesday lunch does open up.  Would Amita like to meet at another time during those days?  There is a possibility that I could do an early dinner on Tuesday evening.  How does that work with Amita's schedule?  --Sally Leah Rijo 05/17/2000 09:04 AM 
Hi Sally Amita from PCG - London will be visiting your offices next Monday - Wednesday and would like to meet with you for lunch.  Do you have any available time in these three days? Many thanks, Leah PCG London 
I agree that discussing the numbers in person with AA would be the right way to handle this.  And, I am looking to Brent in managing the current reconciliation process so he can best address the timing of the meeting.  My expectation is that the vast majority of the $49MM variance will be explained and finalized by Monday at 11:00 am.  This finalization obviously involves both the gas operations group and gas accounting.  I will be on vacation on Monday while my parents are in town for a visit, but I have carved out time during the day at 11:00 to be in the office for an update on the reconciliation, as it is very important to me. --Sally 
I will be attending Wes Colwell's PRC meeting on December 7th.  It starts at 8:00 and may not take the entire day.  I will talk with Wes and see what he anticipates for timing to let you know if it makes sense to schedule me to interview.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Sounds as if you will have a full day on Monday.  I am glad that you are eager to get together to kick off your role -- we will have to save that for Tuesday, however.  I am taking the day off on Monday to be with my parents who will be in from Austin for one of my daughter's piano recital.  9:30 to 10:30 on Tuesday would be a great time for us to get together.  There are two other meetings that day that I would like to have you attend with me.  One is a weekly Risk Forum luncheon from 11:30 to 1:00 and the other is a meeting at 3:00 on trading operations for Tokyo.  I will give the details on location and list of attendees when you and I meet on Tuesday morning. Enjoy your next few days.  I hope that orientation is helpful on Monday. Check with my assistant, Patti Thompson, on where you will be sitting.   I look forward to seeing you on Tuesday.  --Sally ""Randy & Shona Wilson"" <randyshona@hotmail.com> on 05/16/2000 04:03:27 PM 
Dear Sally, I'm looking forward to start working on the 22nd.  I've arranged to have the first day orientation as well as PC training on this date, which will last until about 4:30. I'm putting together some thoughts on how to best ""kick off"" my roles and responsibilities and was wondering if you would be able to meet at 4:30 on the 22nd to go over this. I'm available through tomorrow at 713 356 4086 and the rest of the week at 713 628 7570. Best regards, Shona ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
Approved.  Please process. Sally Beck 
Thanks for the update and attachment.  It will be great to have you back here in Houston.  I have heard lots of good things about your assignment there, however, so I know that the London group will miss your presence. I will try to call you Wednesday morning on my way into the office. 
Thanks for the reminders.  Hopefully, this will take care of this. 
Mary, As Brent Price is out of the country until July & I am travelling out of the country more frequently, I would like to temporarily designate Susan Harrison as a signer.  Susan is the Director of our off-system Settlements & Volume Management groups.  This temporary designation will ensure that we maintain appropriate signing coverage while Brent & I are unavailable. Thanks, Sally 
Irena, Can you attach file? Patti Enron North America Corp. 
Mary, As Brent Price is out of the country until July & I am travelling out of the country more frequently, I would like to temporarily designate Susan Harrison as a signer.  Susan is the Director of our off-system Settlements & Volume Management groups.  This temporary designation will ensure that we maintain appropriate signing coverage while Brent & I are unavailable. Thanks, 
Ignore this first reply.  I am scheduled for too many PRC meetings, so I had my dates confused.  I will get you pre-rankings before the 29th.  You have left Brent Price off of the list, a VP who reports to me.  Is Rick Causey planning to pre-rank Brent, or does he want me to handle that?  Do your records not show that Brent reports to me?  I approved his reviewers in the PEP system.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
The Energy Operations PRC meeting will be held on December 8th.  At that time, I will have information for you to load for Rick's PRC meeting on the 12th.  I would prefer to give you that information on the 8th, rather than guessing at a ranking now or taking the time of my direct reports to go through this process before our meeting on December 8th.   They are all busy with the details of reviewing over 400 people in preparation for our December 8th meeting.  Please let me know if you can make this schedule work for you. Thanks. 
Congratulations on your added role of CEO for Enron Europe.  I look forward to continuing to work with you and the staff in London on risk management operations initiatives. I talk with Brent Price several times a week.  I know that Fernley has appreciated his participation in London, and I hope that you have found his involvement to be beneficial as well.  We are almost at the half way mark on his assignment, so I will talk with you next week when I return from Calgary 
Congratulations on your added role of Chairman and CEO of ENA.  I didn't realize that when I said hello in the elevator last week that we would be seeing more of you in Houston.  I look forward to working with you when you 
Congratulations on your new role as Chief Strategy Officer.    Your leadership in ENA was appreciated and I will miss your active participation in ENA's business.  However, I hope that we will have opportunities to work 
This makes great sense - glad to have you as a true ENA resource. Thanks again for meeting with my expanded staff yesterday.  Let me know how I can best support you as you make the changes that you outlined.  I was impressed with my brief glimpse of Jeff at yesterday's 5:30 meeting.  --Sally 
Guys, in response to the offsite, Beth Perleman is now a dedicated ENA resource on the IT side of the business.  She will be joining the ENA Management Team of which you are all a part.  She will participate in the Friday Management Meeting to address IT issues and opportunities. On Friday May 18th, Beth will go over her management team and her available resources. At every Friday meeting, she will present the current project queue (with associated cost/capital budget and sponser) and the Management Team will set priorities and necessary incremental resources. Regards Delainey 
Well done!  Beth will be a great resource.  --Sally David W Delainey 05/09/2000 02:37 PM 
Guys, in response to the offsite, Beth Perleman is now a dedicated ENA resource on the IT side of the business.  She will be joining the ENA Management Team of which you are all a part.  She will participate in the Friday Management Meeting to address IT issues and opportunities. On Friday May 18th, Beth will go over her management team and her available resources. At every Friday meeting, she will present the current project queue (with associated cost/capital budget and sponser) and the Management Team will set priorities and necessary incremental resources. Regards Delainey 
I will be in the Calgary office from Wednesday afternoon, May 10 through noon on Friday, May 12.  I can most easily be reached through Peggy Hedstrom, whose phone via tie line is 820-6753.  My assistant, Patti Thompson, has a copy of my itinerary and phone and fax numbers at my hotel, if needed. Primary operations contacts in Houston while I am in Calgary are as follows: DPR   Mike Moscoso   x35242 MPR   David Maxwell   x36983 Gas Operations  Susan Harrison   x33960 Power Operations Leslie Reeves   x37962 Financial Products  Sheila Glover   x33210 
I am sorry that I will not be able to join you tonight for dinner and to hear Julie Andrews speak.   Tonight is the induction ceremony for the high school drill team members for next year, with parents being introduced as well as our daughters.  So the place that I most need to be tonight is at Klein High School with Meagan. Thanks to Mary for arranging the dinner.  I hope that all of you enjoy the evening. The final speaker in the series is Jane Goodall, and that will be next Tuesday, May 16.  Please let me know if you have any suggestions for a spot for dinner.   That night is Meagan's 16th birthday, so I have asked her to be my guest that evening for dinnner and the lecture.  I can't think of a better idea for this birthday than to expose her to a group of very bright, motivated women!     I will look forward to introducing her to those of you 
I have been summoned for jury duty onTuesday, November 28 at 8:00 am.  While wanting to fulfill my civic duty, I am also hoping to be an unlikely juror this time around so that I can be back in the office sometime on Tuesday.  I 
I heard this morning from Susan Harrison that Sandra had submitted a letter of resignation to Bryce Baxter, who reports to Susan.  I have not talked directly with Bryce and I have not seen the resignation letter to date this afternoon.   I have left a message for Bryce and I will get with him on Tuesday morning to see a copy of the letter and then can leave you a message after that.  --Sally Cindy Olson@ENRON 05/08/2000 06:22 PM 
Sally and Kim what is the status??????? 
Below is the name and phone number of the woman that I worked with to arrange our tour of Enron  Field.  She may not be the person to talk with regarding displaying a boat, but  will very likely be able to give the correct contact.  It was nice to meet you.  I have enjoyed getting to know Bethany through NCL.  Good luck! Jill McCormick 
I made the assumption when you said that Jim Fallon had said that Kristin's name was ""in play"", that he and Kristin had coordinated a transition with Kevin Presto that made him comfortable.  At an ENA offsite meeting on Wednesday and Thursday last week, I talked with Kevin during a break to see if was comfortable with Kristin's number two as his risk lead. Unfortunately, Kevin knew nothing about this.  So rather than discuss the transition, Kevin had to react to and absorb this as a possibility.  He had some very valid business reasons as to why Kristin's movement over the summer months would be risky for ENA.  You and I can discuss those if you would like.  His reaction was not ""never"", but instead was ""not now"".  He and Kristin talked on Friday and agreed to a transition in mid August.  Let's discuss.  --Sally Barry Pearce 05/08/2000 11:14 AM 
I heard Kristen was the topic of a discussion between Jim and Presto - re:timing. Kristen was going to meet with you. Jim wants real soon - Presto wants never - you know - the regular story. Let me know if you hear anything. B. 
Amanda is at camp from Sunday, May 28 until Saturday, June 10.  Then Meagan leaves on Sunday, June 11 and will return on Saturday, June 24.  If we decide to do a family vacation, it would be either the week of June 26, July 3 or July 10.  After that, Meagan starts Bearkadette practices through school start in August, with a few days at Bearkadette camp July 20-24.  Looks as if we will have one girl or the other with us at any point during the summer, unless Amanda schedules her Austin visit during one of Meagan's two stints at camp.  Let me know when you want to talk dates. ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 05/08/2000 11:53:48 AM 
> > > You have the right earrings -- they are tiny!  But that's what she would > like.  She will be really pleased.  She loves her silver ones, but they > are > not great for everyday wear -- gold is better for her ears. > > Sounds as if your weekend was fun.  Ours was nice --errands and stuff on > Saturday and the Enron picnic at Astroworld on Sunday.  Otherwise, just > camping out in the mess at our house. > > I did talk with Mom on Saturday night about a psychologist vs. > psychiatrist.  Sounds as if from her ER buddy at the Heart Hospital that > she has decided that they need both -- one for counseling and one for > meds. > I believe that she and Dad will each see a counselor type on Tuesday this > week.  I hope that they will begin to find some relief.  Sounds as if they > are really having a hard time - at least Mom. > > We would still like for you to come visit.  Let's talk dates when you're > ready.  --Sally > > > > > ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 05/08/2000 09:07:52 AM > 
> > > HI, Sal.  Well, I guess Meagan told you that I went ahead and called her > since I was headed up to James Avery - and realized time is running out! > I think I found the earrings she wants, but I wanted to make sure.  They > are > really TINY gold studs, in the shape of very gold hearts.   Does that > sound > right?  (She said she has silver ones just like them but wants gold.)   If > those are the ones, I'll have those sent to her. > > Hope you had a good weekend.  We had a social one - friends over for > drinks > on Friday (we have christened the bucket, by the way!); dinner party on > Saturday; babtism/brunch on Sunday . . . I pulled up Enron's web site the > other day and printed out an article about the company just for fun - > thought I should learn more about it.   Interesting stuff.    Love, C. > > > 
roughly? 
Please print the attachment for me in color.  Maybe three copies.  Thanks. 
roughly? Thanks. Yep - for 2 weeks. When can you meet up? This is what I needed it for.... Like it? B. 
roughly? 
Stephen joined Enron on January 29, 1996.  Is there any other info that you need? Are you still planning to be in Houston next week? --Sally Barry Pearce 05/08/2000 09:41 AM 
He has been focused on Sitara for a long time.  He reports to Scott Mills, who is the user lead for the project.  I am copying Scott on this message, as his Sitara team is small and he would know best what deliverables are on the horizon and how critical Tom's involvement is to those deliverables.  I suggest that we involve Scott in these discussions.  --Sally Louise Kitchen 05/08/2000 10:09 AM 
We were thinking Tom would be a great fit for the EnronOnline development job we are currently.  Mark Dilworth is going to approach him - if OK with you. We think he wants a change (we think he has been on Sitara 3 years). Louise 
You have the right earrings -- they are tiny!  But that's what she would like.  She will be really pleased.  She loves her silver ones, but they are not great for everyday wear -- gold is better for her ears. Sounds as if your weekend was fun.  Ours was nice --errands and stuff on Saturday and the Enron picnic at Astroworld on Sunday.  Otherwise, just camping out in the mess at our house. I did talk with Mom on Saturday night about a psychologist vs. psychiatrist. Sounds as if from her ER buddy at the Heart Hospital that she has decided that they need both -- one for counseling and one for meds.  I believe that she and Dad will each see a counselor type on Tuesday this week.  I hope that they will begin to find some relief.  Sounds as if they are really having a hard time - at least Mom. We would still like for you to come visit.  Let's talk dates when you're ready.  --Sally ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 05/08/2000 09:07:52 AM 
HI, Sal.  Well, I guess Meagan told you that I went ahead and called her since I was headed up to James Avery - and realized time is running out! I think I found the earrings she wants, but I wanted to make sure.  They are really TINY gold studs, in the shape of very gold hearts.   Does that sound right?  (She said she has silver ones just like them but wants gold.)   If those are the ones, I'll have those sent to her. Hope you had a good weekend.  We had a social one - friends over for drinks on Friday (we have christened the bucket, by the way!); dinner party on Saturday; babtism/brunch on Sunday . . . I pulled up Enron's web site the other day and printed out an article about the company just for fun - thought I should learn more about it.   Interesting stuff.    Love, C. 
FYI - Let's talk.  I am already booked for Tuesday AM - could you attend and would you want to?  Let's talk before getting back to Margaret.  --Sally 
You  are invited to attend  a  meeting  at  9 AM tomorrow  May 9  to discuss with the  competitor intelligence team  at EES,  ENA  and  Corp  including  Steve Kean, SVP  Public and Reg Affairs ideas  for cross organizational   info  exchange on competitors and customers.  The  meeting  will be held in Room   4701EB,   Hope you can be there.   Thanks  Margaret Carson Director Corp  Strategy and Compet. Analysis 
FYI - Sounds as if we can't delay Tom's residence in the flat any longer.  We have pushed the date several times.  If there are some other delays, you may want to consider flying back with your family back to Houston, and then returning on your own to finish the project.  You could stay in a hotel from that time period.  What do you think?  Can we assure Tom that you will be out of the flat by the 18th of May?  --Sally 
Thanks for the heads up.  I get so many of these requests and never can tell what is being requested!  Your note made this one fast and easy to handle. Thanks. Avril Forster@ENRON 11/27/2000 11:01 AM 
Hi there, Just giving you a heads up that I have submitted an eRequest for vpn.  I have been instructed by the Resolutions Desk that I need vpn in order to use cable on my home computer.  The eRequest required 2 manager's and a vice president to be selected, (not sure if they need all of you to approve). Thanks, Avril 
I understand that Ashley Worthing has been hired by Enron to start work this summer.  I think that she is graduating from Texas A&M.  She is my cousin's daughter, so I am just curious whether or not she is coming in as an 
I gave a copy of this document to Wes Colwell immediately following last week's meeting with a note that he needed to respond to you.  He is the most appropriate respondent from ENA.  --Sally Melissa Becker@ENRON 05/02/2000 03:49 PM 
At the Financial Council meeting last Thursday, we distributed a write-up entitled ""Workshops"".  In it we discussed the work performed to date, the results, and three options for proceeding. Could you please take a look at the document (it's a very quick read), call me if you need more information, and then ""vote"" for which option you would prefer?  I would appreciate your response by this Friday.  if you don't vote, then you will get what the majority votes for.  If there is significant division in the votes, we can discuss a ""tailored"" approach at the next Financial Council meeting. We are trying to do what YOU want; we just need you to tell us which approach you prefer.  Thanks! 
5/1/00 
Did you mean to have an attachment to this e:mail ?  There was not one 
Have fun in Wharton -- remember that Hines BBQ is the best bet in town. Leave room for the pie!  Let's review calendars so that we can pin point a time for you or you and Chris to visit.  ( I will keep that date confidential, so that it will be reserved for you.)  --Sally ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 05/02/2000 10:47:42 AM 
> > > Glad you sent a note - as crazy as life is at our house right now, I did > not get the message from Tammy.  Lots of catch up in the office last week, > which will continue this week.  I think that Chris is home by now, and I > am > sure that you and Erica are glad to have the additional company.  We are > starting to talk birthday with Meagan now.  I will get back with you in a > couple of days after Meg and I have gone through the JA catalogue.  Thanks > for asking.  --Sally > > > > > ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 05/01/2000 04:35:43 PM > 
> > > Hi, Sal.   Just checking in with you.  I called Friday and talked with > Tammy; I wasn't sure if you'd get the message.  Have you had a chance to > comb through the James Avery catalogue (or think of any other ideas?) for > Meagan's birthday?   Hope you're well.   E-mail back when you can!   Love, > C. > > > 
Glad you sent a note - as crazy as life is at our house right now, I did not get the message from Tammy.  Lots of catch up in the office last week, which will continue this week.  I think that Chris is home by now, and I am sure that you and Erica are glad to have the additional company.  We are starting to talk birthday with Meagan now.  I will get back with you in a couple of days after Meg and I have gone through the JA catalogue.  Thanks for asking. --Sally ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 05/01/2000 04:35:43 PM 
Hi, Sal.   Just checking in with you.  I called Friday and talked with Tammy; I wasn't sure if you'd get the message.  Have you had a chance to comb through the James Avery catalogue (or think of any other ideas?) for Meagan's birthday?   Hope you're well.   E-mail back when you can!   Love, C. 
Barry sent me a copy of the draft memo announcing his role within EBS.  Since Scott Pleus is currently in that role and does have people reporting to him in EBS that are in trading operations, I would suggest that the memo contain a mention of the transition: Example: Scott Pleus is currently Director of trading operations for EBS.  He will be transitioning to an origination role within EBS in mid May as Barry Pearce assumes his responsibilities for EBS.  The current trading staff for EBS will report to Barry effective with his start date in May. I also heard from Barry today that Todd Lindholm let him know that he is out of the picture with regard to commercial support for bandwidth trading operations and that Barry will report to John Echols.  So sounds as if that 
It is hard for me to say how this would work on behalf of all of my direct reports.  Sometimes it is tough to have all assistants out at once.  To meet at 3:00, you all would have to leave around 2:30, which could be early in the day for some groups to lose assistants.    Would it work to start a little later in the afternoon?  If before 5:00, I think that all assistants will have to check with their managers on the convenience of an earlier departure time.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
We will look forward to seeing you in Rick Causey's CAO Staff Meeting on May 9th at 8:30 in EB46C1.  I listened to your voice mail message --thanks for the clarification around the recruiting process for one analyst program. My dad was released from the hospital on Saturday, following what seemed like a very long ten day stay.  He lost a lot of weight while being fed only by IV for 8 of those days, so he is under orders to eat everything in sight! Hopefully, this most recent operation will result in overall better health for him going forward.  Thanks for asking.  --Sally Charlene Jackson@ENRON 04/25/2000 01:33 PM 
Sally, I received your voice mail and responded to it.  However, I wanted to follow-up to confirm that we would be able to attend the Staff Mtg. on May 9th at 8:30.  We will begin so that you guys can carry on after we are finished.  I left some information regarding recruiting on the voice mail. If that was not clear please give me a call. Thanks P.S.  How is your dad? 
She was Superior - top of the table.  Her written review should be in the file.  Let me know if HR can not produce that for you and I can get you a copy.  --Sally Barry Pearce @ ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 11/27/2000 12:46 PM 
Sally, Could you please let me know how K ranked out at the half-year. From our previous conversation she was a new Sen Dir at the start of the year - right? Thanks. Elisabeth, Could you get me a phyiscal copy of the review please. Thanks. Barry. 
Tara, When I tried to approve this request (Sheri gave verbal approval), I got message that it had already been approved by another access approver. Patti x39106 
Thanks for your note.  Between meetings today, I will construct a loose job description and e:mail that to you later today.  I realized after you left that we did not talk about compensation.  It would help me in creating this role with our HR group if I knew ballpark figures on compensation.  We have a good comp team that can research that for me, but a short cut would be to know from you what you are currently making and what you would be looking for  in making a move.  Feel free to call me or respond via e:mail.  My number is 713-853-5926.  --Sally ""Randy & Shona Wilson"" <randyshona@hotmail.com> on 04/24/2000 08:21:18 PM 
Dear Sally, Thank you for taking the time to speak with me today. I enjoyed our discussion greatly.  I am very interested in helping Enron construct and implement standardized global risk management procedures.  I look forward to hearing from you. Best regards, Shona Wilson 713 356 4086 ________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com 
I would enjoy being involved in the kickoff for the first Gas Ops program. Keep me posted on date and time.  Thanks for attending the meeting yesterday.  I hope that you will let me know when and how I can best be involved and provide support for your efforts.  --Sally ""Vogelfang, Jill"" <JRV@teamlead.com> on 04/25/2000 07:57:16 AM 
Sally: Thanks for inviting us to your Monday staff meeting.  We're very excited about getting things up and running.  Your continued support has been/will be invaluable. Be sure and let Barbara or I know if you have any questions/concerns/requests....... If you're available, it would be great if you could 'kickoff' the first 'Gas Ops' program.  We'll keep you posted on schedule, location, etc. Take Care Jill 
You have a ticket - we will see you there, with you pager on!  Patti will get your ticket to you before Thursday. Scott Pleus 04/21/2000 01:50 PM 
If tix avail, would love to go.  Thanks for the offer. Scott PS.  My wife is due in about 10 days so I am on call around the clock. Enron North America Corp. Sent by: Patti Thompson 
Sally has gotten a block of tickets for next Thursday's afternoon Astros game and hopes everyone will be able to join her.  Here are the details: Thursday, April 27, at 3:05 PM vs. Chicago Cubs Please email Sally & let her know if you will be able to attend. Thanks, Patti x-39106 
Do you want to give your tickets to someone in your group and join the management team?  Up to you... Enron North America Corp. 
Sally has gotten a block of tickets for next Thursday's afternoon Astros game and hopes everyone will be able to join her.  Here are the details: Thursday, April 27, at 3:05 PM vs. Chicago Cubs Please email Sally & let her know if you will be able to attend. Thanks, Patti x-39106 
Sounds interesting, and Scottsdale is supposed to be nice.  Enjoy! 
Sounds like a good idea.  I am glad to Theresa is getting some benefit from the program.  --Sally 
Approved. Sally Beck 
Here it is! 
I have this on my calendar.  I have jury duty on Tuesday starting at 8:00 am.  I hope to make that short and sweet and be back here as soon as I can.    So I should be able to make the meeting at 4:00.  I will call you if I get hung up at the court house.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Charlene:  Outlined below are the points I promised to send you before our meeting on Wednesday morning.  I don't know your agenda for the meeting, so it may or may not be appropriate to discuss all of these items tomorrow. Background:  As a long-time supporter of the analyst program, I became concerned over the last several months as frustration emerged from other supporters of the program.   Many of those expressing frustration are heavily involved in the recruiting process.   It is their commitment to both recruiting and providing analyst rotations that has been key in attracting talented candidates to what has been the Merchant Services Analyst Program. I initiated a meeting, announced at Rick Causey's staff meeting, that would bring us together so that we could consolidate our concerns and then discuss them with you in a constructive manner.  Our intent is continued support and improvement of the program.   The meeting took place on March 28 and included the following: Brenda Herod   ENA - Energy Operations Executive Lead - LSU Brent Price  ENA - Energy Operations Executive Lead - UT Jeff Sommers  CALME    Executive Lead - Univsersity of Florida Ed Coats  Corp. Tax    Core Team Member - UT, A&M, LSU and University of Florida Sally Beck  ENA - Energy Operations Executive Lead - UT and OU Carolyn Barrett  EBS Howard Selzer  Enron Global E&P Summary of Concerns and Discussion Points: One program, or two:  Prior to campus recruiting in the fall 1999, an announcement  was made that there would be one analyst program.  Not much materialized from that point to clarify what that meant or how that would be managed.  In fact, those of us involved heavily in the recruiting process saw that the MSAP and the Commercial Anlayst programs were managed separately and differently in terms of campus recruiting, rotations and orientation.  We feel uninformed and therefore are hampered in discussing the analyst program on campus. SIngle start date:  The single start date of July 17 for analysts is impractical and inflexible; a concern from our points of view for an innovative company.  The July start date does not consider December graduates and is not necessarily practical for undergrads whose graduation dates are in May. Lack of communication:   We are some of the most involved and committed senior managers in the MSAP, and yet we have received little information or communication about the program.   We hear rumors of ""tracks"", but no facts or details.  Some of us had heard about the single July start date, and some had not. Commercial focus too heavy:  Presentation materials, the attitudes of support staff in the Associates/Analysts Program and interview processes are heavily focused on commercial needs, without understanding support needs. Lack of input from biggest supporters:  Given the time and effort that many of us put into the MSAP, we are concerned that we haven't been asked to join with you in some of your plans for the program.   We are concerned that decisions (example:  the single start date) are being considered in a vacuum without what could be some valuable input from some of us. MSAP has taken a step backward:  Previously, with a dedicated leadership team and staff, the MSAP had made great strides in the consistency of our on campus efforts, the quality of candidates, the acceptance rate of top candidates and the pride of participants in the program.  We feel that the focus on the MSAP has diminished considerably over the last nine months, and we are anxious to work with you to renew excitment for the program. Summary Concerns/Discussion Points: 
Kim, Sally says that Wes Colwell will be assigning ENA representative. Patti 
I read the applications, letters of recommendation and resumes on the plane to Austin and in the hospital this weekend.  Below are my suggested seven appointees to the Analyst Advisory Board.  I made the selections based on their answers to the application questions, plus I attended to get a mix of male and female, commercial and merchant service analysts rotations, current operating company assignments, undergraduate schools, etc. I am sorry that I will not be able to join you in the meeting today. Analyst  School  Current Rotation Rationale Ilan Caplan  UT   CALME Structuring Both MSA and Commercial Analyst rotations Erin Rice  Trinity   CALME Structuring Vocal; good to be part of the solution; female minority Brian Hoskins  Vanderbilt  ENA Trading  I will trust Jeff Shankman on this one Carrie Southard  Texas A&M  ENA - EOL  Current MSA rotation Alejandro Veiga Rice   ESA - Venezula  Good ideas; diverse background Courtney Votaw  Pepperdine  Corp. - PR  Adds interest to the mix with her rotation & background Adrian Woolcock Rice   EES   Sounds mature; good ideas 
Approved. Sally Beck 
I do know Susan so I could probably approve this request.  However, in my staff meeting on Monday ( I know that Katherine was there, and not you), one of the major points that I made centered around my approval of requests for EOL access.  We can discuss when we get together on Friday morning.  Susan needs to put her managers name at the bottom of this form, and the manager should  okay this as well.  --Sally 
Please incorporate these changes into the 2000 plan.  Thanks. 
For the Management contacts for Canada, please make the following changes: Add: Peggy Hedstrom Rob Milnthorp Jon McKay Delete: John Lavorato If you have any questions, please give me a call. Thanks, Peggy 
We would love to see all three of you.  Sounds as if you might arrive on Friday around 5:00 or 6:00, so we will plan on dinner together.  You can see the kitchen in progress!!  The upstairs is untouched, however, so you can make yourselves at home.  I will let everyone know tonight, and they will all be glad to see you. I haven't talked with Cara since the weekend, so I didn't know that she might change her plans.  I will try to catch her tonight. Just let me know on the $'s.  I can send that whenever you might need it. And I would suggest that we start a repay program after another few months as you all get caught up on other things.  No rush. 
I tried to call you back today, but was told that you had left the office. Tried to leave you a voice mail message, but no one in the office knew how to transfer my call into voice mail.  They were good about answering your phone, however! I will call you tomorrow morning before my first meeting at 8:30.  If I miss you, I will ask my assistant to interrupt me when you call back.  I will be in meetings with operations people from London and Sydney tomorrow, but can 
Please incorporate the management contact changes per Sheila Glover for the 2000 plan. 
Can you coordinate the Scott Tholen's team to do this ASAP?  Thanks.  Keep me updated on when Fernley will have access.  Thanks. 
Please go ahead and get Fernley access to the DPR  . Thanks . Mark 
Approved. Sally Beck System would not allow me to submit request electronically. 
Thanks for the update.  I am glad that you and Fernley were able to get together. Let me know what you hear from Mark or Tim about their discussion.  When that is set, I will put out a memo that outlines the changes that we are making as Scott Pleus devotes full time to EBS. Hope your weekend was a good one.  Have you seen Brent yet?  --Sally 
Willie Harrell Security Request approved. 
Fall sounds good to me.  In talking with Sue today, she stated that Dr. Rao would like to inform the winners of the scholarships by letter from him and that it will most likely be another week before he does so.  I asked her to contact me when the letter is going out to the students so that we can follow up with either a letter or phone call from some of us at Enron.  I will keep Rick Causey, the other interviewers and you (or someone in your office) updated on the timing of notifying the winners.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
The scholarships, while sponsored by Enron, are technically awarded by UT.  I will be talking with Sue White today, and I will get her take on whether or not the university wants to contact the winners or whether Enron should do it.  I will let you know. The 24th is a great day for me for the dinner in Austin.  So if that works for recepients and faculty, then that would work our well.  Keep me posted. --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
We interviewed the 12 finalists in Austin yesterday.   Interviewers were Gene Humphrey, Thomas Suffield, Roger Ondrecko and me.  The four of us met this morning in Houston to decide on our suggested scholarship receipients.  Based on my conversation with Sue White yesterday in Austin, I called her today with the names of the three suggested award winners.  I conveyed this via voice mail, as Sue was not in her office.  She had told me that her schedule would be tight today, so it is likely that she and I will talk tomorrow morning.  She wanted to be able to discuss our recommendations.  I would not anticipate any changes as a result of my pending conversation with Sue. However, I think that it will be best to withhold the names of the recepients until after that conversation.  She will most likely then contact you to confirm their names.  I have phone numbers, addresses and e:mail addresses for all three, and I will provide you with those as soon as the official notification from the University takes place. Gene, Thomas and Roger are all interested in attending the dinner in Austin if schedules permit.  The week of April 24th is a good one for me for the dinner.  Obviously, many schedules have to be coordinated.  I know that Rick Causey will want to attend (he will have been in London the week prior, so he may be available).  I have also talked with CIndy Olson and I know that she would like to be included if her schedule permits. Today was Brent's last day in the Houston office for several months.  Let me know how I can help with these arrangements. Enron North America Corp. 
I have asked Patti to get us together  to discuss your e:mail message as soon as possible.  Hopefully, we can work that out this week.  I llok forward to 
Energy Operations will enjoy participating in this program.  I would like to bring this us up at my staff meeting on Monday, April 10, so I will get back to you with the number of students and the contact person(s) next week. --Sally Susan Skarness 03/31/2000 04:37 PM 
Cliff Baxter is representing Enron on the Board of Junior Achievement.  One of the programs that he would like to continue at Enron is the Job Shadow program.  This program entails a half-day commitment once per month beginning with the fall school semester.  The high school students are first given an overview of Enron and then a tour of the building.  The students then spend approximately 1-1/2 hours directly with individuals within specific departments.  Cliff would like to have as many departments as possible participate since this may be the only exposure these students have to the business world. Please advise if you are willing to have your department participate, who your contact person is, and how many students that you would like to host each time. Thank you for your consideration. Susan 
Glad you enjoyed the game.  The field will make baseball much more fun in Houston. Roy Lipsett 04/03/2000 03:06 PM 
Sally; Thanks very much for the baseball tickets. We really enjoyed the game and seeing the new ball park. Roy Lipsett 
I already have this date on my calendar.  Count me in.  --Sally George Hope 04/05/2000 08:57 AM 
We have a presentation planned for April 19th at the University of Oklahoma for the JC Penney leadership group and the Energy Management students. We plan on giving a ""panel discussion"" for the students that will be followed by a social event. I would like for all of you to be on the panel fielding a variety of questions from the group regarding Enron. Please look on your calendars and let me know your availability as soon as possible so we can book this event. Here is a tentative schedule: APRIL 19th Participant arrival - 3:00pm. ( Location TBD) Student arrival- 4:00pm. Presentation- 4:00-5:30pm Social- 6:00-8:00pm. ( Cowboy Rodeo) Thank you and I look forward to hearing from you. George Hope 
We interviewed the 12 finalists in Austin yesterday.   Interviewers were Gene Humphrey, Thomas Suffield, Roger Ondrecko and me.  The four of us met this morning in Houston to decide on our suggested scholarship receipients.  Based on my conversation with Sue White yesterday in Austin, I called her today with the names of the three suggested award winners.  I conveyed this via voice mail, as Sue was not in her office.  She had told me that her schedule would be tight today, so it is likely that she and I will talk tomorrow morning.  She wanted to be able to discuss our recommendations.  I would not anticipate any changes as a result of my pending conversation with Sue. However, I think that it will be best to withhold the names of the recepients until after that conversation.  She will most likely then contact you to confirm their names.  I have phone numbers, addresses and e:mail addresses for all three, and I will provide you with those as soon as the official notification from the University takes place. Gene, Thomas and Roger are all interested in attending the dinner in Austin if schedules permit.  The week of April 24th is a good one for me for the dinner.  Obviously, many schedules have to be coordinated.  I know that Rick Causey will want to attend (he will have been in London the week prior, so he may be available).  I have also talked with CIndy Olson and I know that she would like to be included if her schedule permits. Today was Brent's last day in the Houston office for several months.  Let me know how I can help with these arrangements. Enron North America Corp. 
Thanks for sending the announcement to me.  You will be a great asset to EBS.  And you will probably be working with some of our old Energy Operations staff members!  Stay in touch and I wish you the best in your new role. --Sally 
I will look forward to meeting you during your visit to Houston next week.  I will work with Carol to schedule a time that will work for both of us.  Have a nice flight.  --Sally 
Glad you enjoyed the game.   It was certainly a panoramic view from up there!  I am that you continue to be pleased with your decision to come to Enron, and I am  certainly glad that you are here. 
Below is an announcement that was sent to employees within Enron Europe tod= ay=20 from Fernley Dyson and me.  Most of you have probably become aware of the= =20 assignment that Brent will have over the next few months in London.  We=20 anticipate that he will be back in the Houston office by the end of the=20 second quarter.  I thought that you would like to see how we have described= =20 the role that he will play in London. =20 Brent will retain his current role within North America, and will be=20 conducting his Houston staff meetings via conference call from London.  Sus= an=20 Harrison and Steve Jackson will play leadership roles for his gas team whil= e=20 he is in London;  Susan with a focus on operations and Steve with a focus o= n=20 risk and interfacing with Jeff Shankman's on daily p&l and position=20 information.  needs. =20 Please wish Brent well in this additional assignment in London.  I would as= k=20 that you help defeat the ""out of sight, out of mind"" syndrome, and that you= =20 keep Brent informed of ENA issues as you would if he were in town, via e:ma= il=20 or telephone.  Also, please work closely with Susan and Steve when you are= =20 dealing with issues that cut across commodity lines.  Susan will be attendi= ng=20 the Monday afternoon staff meeting. =20 
Please see the following announcement, which just went out to Enron Europe Niki 
 Enron Europe has played a vital role over the last few years in the global= =20 expansion of  Enron=01,s  business.  Now we are taking a strategic role in= =20 setting the standards for global operational performance.  Accordingly, we= =20 will work closely with Global Risk Management Operations to assess our=20 operational policies, procedures and internal controls.  This will be a=20 collaborative effort to establish and implement standards and measurements = to=20 be used world-wide.  This strategic initiative is critical to Enron=01,s=20 performance, in insuring that trading operations services are delivered=20 consistently across all commodities and all locations. =20 We are very pleased to announce that effective April 10, 2000, Brent Price,= =20 Vice President of Global Risk  Management Operations, will office at Enron= =20 House, reporting to both of us.  Brent will have the responsibility and=20 authority to facilitate this global initiative for Enron Europe.  Brent=20 brings a wealth of operational and risk experience.  His most recent=20 assignment included heading Gas Operations for Enron North America. =20 Brent will have the responsibility to assist and guide us through the proce= ss=20 of assessment and development of global operational standards and=20 measurements.  This will include evaluating the operational processes,=20 procedures and controls for all commodities and locations managed by Enron= =20 Europe.  He will also advise us on any critical issues requiring immediate= =20 action to insure that we are fully aligned in  the delivery of global=20 consistency throughout all of our operations.  He will work actively with t= he=20 operations staff in Enron Europe to achieve this goal. =20 We ask your full co-operation in supporting Brent and the success of this= =20 initiative. =20 We remain committed to our mutual efforts to develop our people, build=20 business knowledge, leverage talent across locations and insure the integri= ty=20 of our global services. =20 Fernley Dyson     Sally Beck VP, Chief Accounting Officer   VP, Global Risk Management Operations 
Glad you enjoyed the game.  That was quite a climb to those seats!  I did it a couple of times with my two year old in arms, and wasn't sure that I would make it!  That's good that you could watch from a lower level. --Sally Bob Klein 04/03/2000 07:28 AM 
Thank you for the tickets to the Saturday game. My wife and I enjoyed it very much. We were unable to sit in the Upper Level in the seats ticketed. My wife and I came to the fourth level to identify the seats. When we arrived, my wife became dizzy as she does in most high places. We watched the game from the walkway at level one and were able to enjoy the game. Thanks again for the tickets. Enron Field is a nice ballpark. Bob 
Per my voice mail message, attached is a draft memo regarding Brent's role in London.  Any comments would be appreciated.  Fernley and I plan to send this out sometime next week, prior to Brent's assignment starting on April 10. 
Do you know what this is?   ISO makes me think power.  Any clues?  --Sally 
Ted or Sally - Is this something you can answer for Andrew?  Donna I've cc you on this message since this might be compliance related too. Terrie 
Energy Operations has two sets of season tickets for Astros games this season.  One set is four tickets in the field box level, and the other set is two tickets in the terrace level.  I have also purchased one parking spot in a lot that is a couple of blocks from the stadium.  I have divided the tickets among you, with my husband's help.  He identified ""good games"" (i.e. teams that everyone likes to see), and those are distributed equally across my direct reports.  Tickets for the other games have been distributed based your percentage of Energy Operations employees.  For most games, you will receive all six tickets.  You can use these tickets for yourself and for a small reward for a job well done by someone in your group.  The parking information will accompany the group of four field box tickets.  Patti is including a map of downtown with the parking lot pinpointed.  Your tickets will be distributed to you this week.  I hope that you and your staff will enjoy these. I also received over 100 tickets from Cliff Baxter, Greg Whalley and Dave Delainey for the exhibition game on Saturday, April 1.  I have chosen to distribute two tickets a piece to all directors and managers in Energy Operations who are not my direct reports.  SInce you will have first call on the season tickets going to your group, I thought that it would be nice to make these tickets available to the next tier of leadership.  I wanted to make you aware of this before these are distributed tomorrow. Finally, I have purchased a block of tickets for two upcoming games, one a weekday afternoon and one a weekend.  I will let you know these dates soon, 
Approved.  Please note that Co. # should be 0342 for Misc. Expense on Todd032400LondonSAP expense report. Thanks, Sally Beck 
Sorry that we have missed one another by phone.  I agree that the challenge= s=20 of EBS are going to be very exciting.  Enron has certainly made a commitmen= t=20 to make communications a large part of our future success.  I would suggest= =20 that to get more details that you talk with Scott Pleus.  He is one of my= =20 direct reports, who most recently has been the business controller for=20 Emerging Products, including bandwidth.  Scott's focus will soon shift to= =20 focus full time on trading operations for bandwidth.  Give Scott a call at= =20 X36577 and I am sure that he would be glad to visit with you about the=20 industry and opportunities that he sees within EBS. =20 =20   
I am extremely interested in learning more about Enron Broadband Services a= nd=20 George Hope suggested I talk to you.  I take pride in being part of the Pow= er=20 Trading Group since late 1997 and see many similarities emerging in the=20 Intelligent Network / BOS.   I do NOT want anyone to think I=01,m eager to = leave=20 Scheduling in our group, but I know that the challenge and experiences in= =20 growing these technologies for Enron is going to be awesome. =20 Until we get a chance to meet, you can page me at 800-980-2182 or by return= =20 E-mail. Thanks and I look forward to hearing from you. Corry Bentley 
Meant to copy you on this reply to Mike, but forgot to do so before my initial send.  Here it is... 
I have attached a listing of planned PRC meetings for Operations that will be held in Houston.  There will be a number of pre-review meetings that will be held over the next two weeks in preparation for an Energy Operations PRC meeting to be held on Friday, December 8th.  The pre-meetings are necessary due to the sheer size of the groups.  (In addition to the meetings detailed in this schedule, Brent's team in EGM is having pre-meetings as well.) The December 8th meeting will include all operations personnel from ENA, EGM and EIM.  We will review the results from the pre-review meetings for Senior Specialists and below.  I have asked that the results from the pre-review meetings mirror the ""preferred distribution"", which as you probably know suggests that 15% of the population will not receive a bonus and should therefore be in the bottom two categories.  Assuming that appropriate work has been done at the pre-review meetings, this review on the 8th should not be too lengthy.  We will take considerably more time as we review the managers, who will have been pre-ranked as well.  This will give us a good jumping off point for the cross calibration discussions.  We will then review and rank the directors and senior directors.  We will also be discussing suggested promotions during this meeting as well.  Finally, assuming that I still have David Oxley and Wes Colwell captive and attentive, I will discuss my suggested rankings for the three VP's who report to me.  (We will of course pare down the list of attendees as we move up the ladder on levels that we are reviewing -- initial make up of the December 8th PRC is me and my direct reports within ENA, Brent and his direct reports within EGM and Brenda Herod from EIM.)  I have also extended an invitation to Louise Kitchen to attend the December 8th meeting.  I do not know yet if she will attend. Do you have some suggestions for cross-calibrating on a global basis this year?  I think that next year we can put some plans in place early in the year to help facilitate this.  Would you like to attend the meeting here in Houston on December 8th?  Is there a planned meeting in London that would make sense for me to attend?  Let me know your thoughts. -Sally Mike Jordan 11/24/2000 04:28 AM 
Sally I have been speaking to Cindy Horn ( works for Scott here in London ) about checking ratings / promotions across the two groups in London ( EGM and EEL ) which raised concerns that this might duplicate some work done on cross calibration done by yourself. Can I ask what are the plans? 
I will be at the meeting on Thursday.  I have asked Brenda Herod to attend as well.  Can you add her to your distribution list so that she receives notice of these meetings as well?  That way, one or both of us will be able to attend.  Thanks. Elisabeth McCabe@ENRON 03/22/2000 03:37 PM 
An ENA Vision and Values committee meeting will be held on Thursday, March 30 at 2:30 p.m. in 47C2. We will review the internal communications plan for 2000 and discuss the upcoming focus groups that are planned for ENA in April. The meeting should last no longer than one hour.  Please plan to attend. Thank you. 
I will plan to attend.  Can you attend as well?  --Sally 
An ENA Vision and Values committee meeting will be held on Thursday, March 30 at 2:30 p.m. in 47C2. We will review the internal communications plan for 2000 and discuss the upcoming focus groups that are planned for ENA in April. The meeting should last no longer than one hour.  Please plan to attend. Thank you. 
Definitely take off and meet Scott at the airport.  I know that you will be glad to see him. Enron North America Corp. 
DISCUSSION DRAFT TO:  Enron Europe Employees=20 FROM:  Fernley Dyson, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, EEL Sally Beck, Vice President =01) Global Risk Management Operations=20 SUBJECT: Trading Operations Resource for London Enron Europe Ltd. has played a vital role over the last few years in the=20 global expansion of  Enron=01,s  business.  Now, EEL is taking a strategic = role=20 in setting the standards for global operational performance.  Accordingly,= =20 EEL will work closely with Global Risk Management Operations to assess our= =20 operational policies, procedures and internal controls.  This will be a=20 collaborative effort to establish and implement standards and measurements = to=20 be used world-wide.  This strategic initiative is critical to Enron=01,s=20 performance, in insuring that trading operations services are delivered=20 consistently across all commodities and all locations. =20 We are very pleased to announce that effective April 10, 2000, Brent Price,= =20 Vice President of Global Risk  Management Operations, will office at Enron= =20 House, reporting to both of us.  Brent will have the responsibility and=20 authority to facilitate this global initiative for Enron Europe.  Brent=20 brings a wealth of operational and risk experience.  His most recent=20 assignment included heading Gas Operations for Enron North America. =20 Brent will have the responsibility to assist and guide us through the proce= ss=20 of assessment and development of global operational standards and=20 measurements.  This will include evaluating the operational processes,=20 procedures and controls for all commodities and locations managed by EEL.  = He=20 will also advise us on any critical issues requiring immediate action to=20 insure that we are fully aligned in  the delivery of global consistency=20 throughout all of our operations.  He will work actively with the operation= s=20 staff in Enron Europe to achieve this goal. =20 (FERNLEY =01) This would be a good spot to perhaps make a reference to the= =20 timing of Mike Jordan=01,s arrival and the role that Brent would play in hi= s=20 assimilation, assuming that when this goes out that you have already sent o= ut=20 an announcement about hiring Mike and his role.) We ask your full co-operation in supporting Brent and the success of this= =20 initiative. =20 We remain committed to our mutual efforts to develop our people, build=20 business knowledge, leverage talent across locations and insure the integri= ty=20 
I am in London this week and have picked up your message with the attachment.  If you could let me know what it is that you are trying to do with this, then I will be glad to help you where I can.  Are you trying to create  a job description to be used to search for a local candidate in Japan?  Do you need a job description for internal purposes to create a position on the Tokyo team?  Is this a job description that you want to use in discussions that we may have with Eugenio Perez in a start up role for the risk books?  These three options would all require slightly different descriptions of the role, so it would be helpful to know how you will use this. 
Please find attached the final draft of the Sydney/Singapore presentations for you review and distribution.  Thank you. 
Ted Murphy, Tom Bauer, Jim Brown and I met yesterday to schedule the next series of operations/controls reviews of Enron offices or certain companies in which Enron holds an ownership interest.   Attached is a copy of that schedule.  Please contact Ted or me if you have any questions.  You will note that the full make-up of the teams is being worked on currently.  We have identified the lead on each review, however, from RAC, Operations and AA. 
I will be out of the office Wednesday through Friday, March 15-17 to be with my children during part of their spring break.  We will be in town, so I can be reached either at home (281-370=8568) or on my cell phone (713-417-1591). I will check voice mail messages during this time period, but probably once or twice a day. I will be in the London office next week.  I will be in that office from about noon on Monday through the end of the day on Thursday.  Patti will have a schedule of my appointments while I am there, and she will have an international cell phone number that I will have with me throughout the trip.  Contact her if you need to speak directly with me.  I will be responding to voice mail frequently throughout the week.  I will be travelling back to Houston on Friday, March 24 (leaving my hotel in London around 1 AM Houston time). 
The e:mail system never recognizes Rick Causey, so you were dropped from the first distribution.  I have to remember to type your full first name! 
I will be out of the office Wednesday through Friday this week (March 15-17).   I will be with my children while they are on Spring Break.  I can be reached those three day either at home (281-370-8568) or on my cell phone (713-417-1591).   The following persons will serve as key operations contacts in the office while I am out: Key Operations Contacts March 15-17 Brent Price   Business Controller, Gas  x37647 Kristin Albrecht   Business Controller, Power  x34763 Also, I will be in the London office during the week of March 20th.  I am working with Fernley Dyson and John Sherriff to structure training and orientation for a new head of trading operations that has been hired in London.  I am also working to provide transition resources to London for operational controls unttil the new guy is on board.  My work on this should be completed by the end of next week.  I will return to Houston on Friday, March 24.  My assistant, Patti Thompson (x39106),  will have a copy of my schedule while I am in London as well as an international mobile phone number where I can be reached. Please don't hesitate to call.  I will be responding to voice mail messages throughout the week.   The following persons will serve as key operations contacts in the Houston office while I am working from London: Key Operations Contacts  March 20-24 Brenda Herod   Business Controller, Gas  x35778 Kristin Albrecht   Business Controller, Power  x34763 Kristin Albrecht will attend the Monday, March 20th staff meeting at 9:30 in my absence. 
I will be out of the office Wednesday through Friday this week (March 15-17).   I will be with my children while they are on Spring Break.  I can be reached those three day either at home (281-370-8568) or on my cell phone (713-417-1591).   The following persons will serve as key operations contacts in the office while I am out: Key Operations Contacts March 15-17 Brent Price   Business Controller, Gas  x37647 Kristin Albrecht   Business Controller, Power  x34763 Also, I will be in the London office during the week of March 20th.  I am working with Fernley Dyson and John Sherriff to structure training and orientation for a new head of trading operations that has been hired in London.  I am also working to provide transition resources to London for operational controls unttil the new guy is on board.  My work on this should be completed by the end of next week.  I will return to Houston on Friday, March 24.  My assistant, Patti Thompson (x39106),  will have a copy of my schedule while I am in London as well as an international mobile phone number where I can be reached. Please don't hesitate to call.  I will be responding to voice mail messages throughout the week.   The following persons will serve as key operations contacts in the Houston office while I am working from London: Key Operations Contacts  March 20-24 Brenda Herod   Business Controller, Gas  x35778 Kristin Albrecht   Business Controller, Power  x34763 Kristin Albrecht will attend the Monday, March 20th staff meeting at 9:30 in 
I have attached a listing of planned PRC meetings for Operations that will be held in Houston.  There will be a number of pre-review meetings that will be held over the next two weeks in preparation for an Energy Operations PRC meeting to be held on Friday, December 8th.  The pre-meetings are necessary due to the sheer size of the groups.  (In addition to the meetings detailed in this schedule, Brent's team in EGM is having pre-meetings as well.) The December 8th meeting will include all operations personnel from ENA, EGM and EIM.  We will review the results from the pre-review meetings for Senior Specialists and below.  I have asked that the results from the pre-review meetings mirror the ""preferred distribution"", which as you probably know suggests that 15% of the population will not receive a bonus and should therefore be in the bottom two categories.  Assuming that appropriate work has been done at the pre-review meetings, this review on the 8th should not be too lengthy.  We will take considerably more time as we review the managers, who will have been pre-ranked as well.  This will give us a good jumping off point for the cross calibration discussions.  We will then review and rank the directors and senior directors.  We will also be discussing suggested promotions during this meeting as well.  Finally, assuming that I still have David Oxley and Wes Colwell captive and attentive, I will discuss my suggested rankings for the three VP's who report to me.  (We will of course pare down the list of attendees as we move up the ladder on levels that we are reviewing -- initial make up of the December 8th PRC is me and my direct reports within ENA, Brent and his direct reports within EGM and Brenda Herod from EIM.)  I have also extended an invitation to Louise Kitchen to attend the December 8th meeting.  I do not know yet if she will attend. Do you have some suggestions for cross-calibrating on a global basis this year?  I think that next year we can put some plans in place early in the year to help facilitate this.  Would you like to attend the meeting here in Houston on December 8th?  Is there a planned meeting in London that would make sense for me to attend?  Let me know your thoughts. -Sally Mike Jordan 11/24/2000 04:28 AM 
Sally I have been speaking to Cindy Horn ( works for Scott here in London ) about checking ratings / promotions across the two groups in London ( EGM and EEL ) which raised concerns that this might duplicate some work done on cross calibration done by yourself. Can I ask what are the plans? 
Per my earlier e:mail message, I am forwarding to you the draft of the report on the operations/controls review of Singapore.  (It is an attachment to the message from Scott Earnest to me.)  The most current drafts of the reports on Oslo and  Frankfurt were compiled by the AA team in London.  Nick Swingler is apparently out on vacation this week.  I have asked AA personnel from Houston to coordinate with their London office to get you a copy of those two draft reports.  Given the time difference, you should receive thos reports via e:mail from AA on Wednesday.  --Sally 
I'll look forward to seeing you.  Since my first note, I have scheduled a dinner with Richard Sage on Thursday evening - the only time that he and I can meet, since he is in Helsinki through Wednesday, in the office on Thursday but booked that day.  With the Tuesday dinner with Fernley, that leaves Monday or Wednesday.  I hope that one of those days works for you and Frank.  I will try to call Mo - I think that she is still in Houston today. --Sally Beth Apollo 03/14/2000 10:27 AM 
sure it works -- I just need to schedule the nanny to stay late  -- I will ask her this evening which night she can stay -- would be fun to see you both.  I saw a lot of Brent the last time he was here, but haven't seen you in a while. I will call or email you tomorrow with a definite. B Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Brent Price and I will be in the London office next week.  Wanted to see if you, Frank and Mo might be available for dinner one evening.  We arrive on Monday morning (March 20th) and will return to Houston on Friday morning. Our Tuesday night is booked, having dinner with Fernley.  But Monday, Wednesday and Thursday are available.  Does it work for you with the baby to do evenings?  Let me know. 
1)  I just talked with Scott Earnest and asked him to send you and John Sherriff copies of the lastest draft of the report on Singapore.  This draft now incorporates comments from Bill Bradford that were pending last week (he made the trip to Sydney and Singapore, but had to be in New York last week, meaning his imput was delayed until yesterday.  You and John should receive those drafts today. 2)  I sent an e:mail message to John Sherriff after you and I talked, simply to clarify the several purposes of my trip to London (since you said he was asking).  I have scheduled a brief meeting one-on-one with him while I am there. 3)  To outline for you the primary points on my agenda for the week, they are the following: Iron out with you the trading operations support that Brent and I can provide for you during this transition period Finalize details with Tara Rozen on work permits, accomodations and all of the details on having support personnel in London Map out with you how we can provide training, orientation and contacts for Michael Jordan when he arrives to help make his assimilation a smooth one (which as you and I discussed, may involved a short stint in Houston) Meet with you, Barry, Richard Sage and anyone else that you feel is appropriate to collect their ideas on working collectively on effective trading operations and controls world-wide 
Brent Price and I will be in the London office next week, arriving Monday morning and returning to Houston on Friday.  The purpose of my visit is in regard to my Global Risk Management Operations role,   I believe that Rick Causey met with you regarding some operations support that Brent and I will provide to Fernley during a transition period prior to the arrival and during the assimilation of Michael Jordan, the JP Morgan staffer that Fernley has hired.  Brent and I will be working with Fernley next week to iron out the details of our support for Fernley during that transition period.  We will also map out an Enron trading operations introduction  for Michael Jordan, which may involve a short stint for him in Houston.  My goal is to provide a strong resource to Fernley during this transition period and to work with Fernley to provide whatever assistance, training, and orientation to Michael in his role so that his assimilation can be as smooth and effective as possible. Another purpose for the trip is to spend some time with Fernley and his business controllers  to get their ideas on specific goals that as a group we would commit to for 2000.  I know that Barry and Richard Sage have many good ideas on how we can leverage knowledge and best practices across all Enron locations with trading operations.  My earlier trips to London this year were focused solely on Helsinki, and did not allow time to positively focus on leveraging worldwide operations experience.  I value input from other trading operations professionals and I look forward to the ideas that can be generated in working with Barry, Richard and some of their direct reports. I also contacted Tani Nath about my trip to see how I could support her as she moves into her role in Global Products.  I have not heard  from Tani, but I understand from others that she will be in the Houston office next week. It will be unfortunate to miss her on my trip, but based on my commitments in Houston and Rick Causey's desire to move forward on providing trading operations support to Fernley, next week is the best for me to be in London. I did meet with Tani for an hour when she was here week before last and offered to help her in any way if she made the decision to accept the role over Global Products.  I trust that she will contact me for that support as needed. I have scheduled a short meeting one on one with you while I am there to discuss how my global role can provide support and resources for your business efforts in London.  I look forward to meeting with you next week. This trip is not a leg of the worldwide operations/control review that we are conducting at Joe Sutton's request.   By circumstance, as you know, we have taken a look at Helsinki and subsequently Oslo and Frankfurt.  There will be a similar review of Continental power, UK gas, UK power and global liquids. The review teams are currently focused on operations/controls reviews of North American locations and some entities in the US in which Enron has a large ownership position.  It is likely that the continuation of this effort in London will occur in mid April. Copies of the drafts of the findings for Oslo and Frankfurt were provided to Fernley as soon as the team returned to Houston.  We hope to finalise those drafts this week as we receive comments from Fernley and the business managers in Oslo and Frankfurt to whom those drafts were provided.  Fernley suggested that you would like to see the drafts as opposed to the final copies, so I will have those forwarded to you today.  The Sydney and Singapore trip was a lengthy one, as it also involved a last leg of the trip in London with regard to support for SIngapore.  The Houston team returned the middle of last week and worked with AA on an early draft last Friday.  I can also provide you with a draft of that report, the completion of which was pending input from Bill Bradford early this week (he made the trip but was out of the office last week).  We did do a preliminary review of the Sydney and Singapore findings with Rick Causey and Rick Buy on Friday afternoon, to accommodate the fact that both are out on vacation this week.  They understood the preliminary nature of the draft that was reviewed with them. 
I didn't get a response from you regarding my e:mail that I sent last week, but I have heard through the grapevine that you will be making a trip to Houston next week.  My plans for being in London next week are firm, so it looks as if we will miss one another. My offer stands to help you in any way as you take on your new role, so I trust that you will take me up on that offer as needed.  I will look forward to working with you as we develop common standards for operations worldwide, with effective exception reporting.  This is a key initiative for 2000 and will involve trading operations in all locations for all commodities. 
I have asked my assistant Patti to help me in setting up meetings for next week and I had asked her to arrange  a lunch with you and Brent, plus some time for just the two of us to get together. We are continuing the worldwide operations/controls review at the request of the two Rick's (Causey and Buy).  That will include a look at Continental power, UK power, UK gas and global products.  Looks as if sometime in April will be the date for that, however, not next week.  --Sally Barry Pearce 03/14/2000 08:29 AM 
Can you do lunch one day? Also - Bjorn H gave me a rather cryptic 'heads-up' about 'people on there way to London to audit operations' - should we be ready for a review? B. 
Brent Price and I will be in the London office next week.  Wanted to see if you, Frank and Mo might be available for dinner one evening.  We arrive on Monday morning (March 20th) and will return to Houston on Friday morning. Our Tuesday night is booked, having dinner with Fernley.  But Monday, Wednesday and Thursday are available.  Does it work for you with the baby to 
Have fun in San Antonio.   It is a very popular spring break destination. Enjoy it! Robert Superty 03/13/2000 10:47 AM 
FYI - I will be taking vacation on Wed 3/15 - Friday 3/17.  Kids on Spring break, looking to spend some family time with them in San Antonio. 
3PM sounds great.  I will look forward to meeting you. Tara Rozen 03/13/2000 10:57 AM 
No problem. I will ask my assistant, Lisa, to work out the arrangements for you to see the accommodation. Brent came back to me with the same response about the meeting and I came back with a 3pm time slot. Will that work? Regards Tara Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Thanks for your homework on this.  We will definitely take a look at these two places next week while we are in London.  Let us know what we need to do to schedule this.  I look forward to meeting you.  One of your earlier messages suggested meeting on Monday morning.  Monday is great, but we would have to make that an afternoon meeting.  Brent and I will be on the flight that leaves Houston at 7:00 PM on Sunday evening, arriving at Gatwick around 10:00 AM.  By the time we clear customs, take the train, check in to the hotel and shower, we will not be in the office before 12:30 or 1:00.  Do you have a time available to meet with us that afternoon?   Thanks.  --Sally Tara Rozen 03/13/2000 04:24 AM 
Brent/Sally I have two options available below. I have not seen these apartments, however, so would recommend that you both have a look when you arrive next week. Please let me know if you find these suitable. Neither of them are located in South Kensington or Chelsea but I think you will find that Kensington and Marylebone are also very nice, close to parks and high streets, etc.   Also, is Fernley the person from whom I should seek approval for costs of accommodation and per diems or is Houston picking up these charges? Kensington High Street - We have a block of apartments here that offer accommodation of a high standard. They will have a newly  refubished spacious flat free with 3 bathrooms, 24 hour porterage, Mon-Fri maid service, and an underground car parking space included. Please however note that this flat will not be free until the 03rd or 04th of April. OR Baker Street W1 - Spacious 3 bedroom flat in porteraged block close to the station. This flat has been newly decorated and re-carpeted throughout. One double bedroom with bathroom ensuite and 2 bedrooms with 2 single beds in each. Fully equipped kitchen and comfortable lounge. Regards Tara 
We are working on the details of Todd's accomodations.  I view this as a business trip on which we are allowing him to bring his family.  ENA is picking up the cost associated with the family.  Sounds as if I need to make sure we moderate expectations on those accomodations, but we will get that handled. That is great that Edith will be in London for part of Todd's stay. Your notes ask for Astros tickets for Wed., April 10th.  Monday is actually the 10th; Wednesday is the 12th.  The Astros play St. Louis on both of those days., both evening games.  I would be happy to give you four tickets for either one of those games.  Just let me know whether you actually want the 10th or the 12th. We will definitely plan to get together while you are here in April.  I would love to see Jo as well.  We will have to work the details.  I am planning to be in London next week, arriving the morning of the 20th (Monday) and staying through Thursday, so we should see one another before April.  I am working on an agenda right now for next week, so I will be back in touch within the next day or so to confirm some time with you there.  --Sally Barry Pearce 03/13/2000 08:37 AM 
To recap. 1. I think Todd is going to be here on 25th March. HR eare sorting out accomodation for one month. Europe pay his costs, NA pick up family costs. 2. Spoke to Bernie A - Edith is going to be here for a week in the middle of Todd's month. 3. I'll be in Houston w/c 8th April - lets get together then for an update. Though I believe you may be here sooner than that? 4. Astros' - any chance of tickets for Wed 10th (v St Louis). I guess - to be extra cheeky - can I have 4 - to take Jo and kids? No problem if that's not possible. Talk soon. B. 
Attached is the list of PRC meetings that will cover operations for ENA, EIM and EGM.  Location, times and attendees are listed for each meeting.  There are five pre-review meetings that will take place starting today through December 5 in preparation for the Energy Operations PRC meeting that will be held on Friday, December 8.  I invite you to sit in on any or all of these meetings if you would like to do so. The most meaningful meeting will be on  December 8th.  In that meeting, we will review the results from the pre-review meetings for Senior Specialists and below.  I would anticipate that if at each pre-review meeting the preferred distribution is met as instructed, then this portion of the meeting will not take too long.  We will then review in more detail the managers, who will have been pre-ranked in the pre-review meetings.  We will also review and rank the directors and senior directors.  I can also be prepared to review my suggested rankings for the three VP's who report to me, with you, Wes Colwell and David Oxley in attendance. Call me if you have any questions.  --Sally 
Thanks for your homework on this.  We will definitely take a look at these two places next week while we are in London.  Let us know what we need to do to schedule this.  I look forward to meeting you.  One of your earlier messages suggested meeting on Monday morning.  Monday is great, but we would have to make that an afternoon meeting.  Brent and I will be on the flight that leaves Houston at 7:00 PM on Sunday evening, arriving at Gatwick around 10:00 AM.  By the time we clear customs, take the train, check in to the hotel and shower, we will not be in the office before 12:30 or 1:00.  Do you have a time available to meet with us that afternoon?   Thanks.  --Sally Tara Rozen 03/13/2000 04:24 AM 
Brent/Sally I have two options available below. I have not seen these apartments, however, so would recommend that you both have a look when you arrive next week. Please let me know if you find these suitable. Neither of them are located in South Kensington or Chelsea but I think you will find that Kensington and Marylebone are also very nice, close to parks and high streets, etc.   Also, is Fernley the person from whom I should seek approval for costs of accommodation and per diems or is Houston picking up these charges? Kensington High Street - We have a block of apartments here that offer accommodation of a high standard. They will have a newly  refubished spacious flat free with 3 bathrooms, 24 hour porterage, Mon-Fri maid service, and an underground car parking space included. Please however note that this flat will not be free until the 03rd or 04th of April. OR Baker Street W1 - Spacious 3 bedroom flat in porteraged block close to the station. This flat has been newly decorated and re-carpeted throughout. One double bedroom with bathroom ensuite and 2 bedrooms with 2 single beds in each. Fully equipped kitchen and comfortable lounge. Regards Tara 
Attached is a referral and resume on an HR professional that I thought might interest you.  The referral comes from James Scribner, a guy that has just accepted a job offer from me.  James and I worked together previously at a bank, and he is very discerning in his evaluation of talent.  When I asked if he knew of any other talented people at Fleming (his current employer) that we should know, he immediately suggested Tana.  His read is that she is very bright, creative, and innovative.  She has worked on many special projects at Fleming, but James believes that she would certainly consider a generalist role as she learned Enron and would then ""earn"" her way into managing special projects.  I thought that I would give ENA a first look at this candidate. If you are not interested or do not have a need, please pass this referral along to other HR groups. FYI - James will start work here on April 3. 
Sally, Attached is the resume for Tana Cashion.  Thank you for your help. James Scribner 405/841-8607 jscribn@email.fleming.com - Tana Cashion_1.doc 
I was forwarded a copy of Fernley's announcement regarding your new role fo= r=20 Global Products Trading Support.  Your discussions in Houston last week mus= t=20 have swayed you to accept the challenges that are there.  Congratulations o= n=20 your new role.  As you step into your new position, please let me know how = I=20 can best support you in my role over Global Risk Management Operations.  I = am=20 forwarding  a copy of the announcement regarding my expanded role that was= =20 sent out in January.  Assuming that you were not paying particular attentio= n=20 to trading operations issues at that point in time, this may be one of thos= e=20 e:mail messages that you skipped.  I thought that it might be helpful for y= ou=20 to understand the focus that I will have in working with trading operations= =20 groups around the globe.  I certainly will look forward to working with you= ,=20 Tim and Kevin. =20 I understand that Kevin will move into a role that is focused full-time on= =20 systems implementation.  Who will assume the day-to-day lead responsibility= =20 for Global Products trading operations in Houston and how will that=20 individual report in to you? =20 I will be in the London office during the week of March 20.  I will leave= =20 Houston on Sunday evening, so that I should be in the office by noon on=20 Monday.  I plan to be there through Thursday evening.  Let me know if you= =20 will be in town that week, so that we can schedule some time together.  =20 --Sally=20 
Recognizing Enron=01,s increasing worldwide presence in the wholesale energ= y=20 business and the need to insure outstanding internal controls for all of ou= r=20 risk management activities, regardless of location, a global risk managemen= t=20 operations function has been created under the direction of Sally W. Beck,= =20 Vice President.  In this role, Sally will report to Rick Causey, Executive= =20 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. =20 Sally=01,s responsibilities with regard to Global Risk Management Operation= s=20 will mirror those of other recently created Enron global functions.  In thi= s=20 role, Sally will work closely with all Enron geographic regions and wholesa= le=20 companies to insure that each entity receives individualized regional suppo= rt=20 while also focusing on the following global responsibilities: 1. Enhance communication among risk management operations professionals. 2. Assure the proliferation of best operational practices around the globe.= =20 3. Facilitate the allocation of human resources. =20 4. Provide training for risk management operations personnel. 5. Coordinate user requirements for shared operational systems.=20 6. Oversee the creation of a global internal control audit plan for risk=20 management activities. 7. Establish procedures for opening new risk management operations offices= =20 and create key benchmarks for measuring on-going risk controls.  =20 Each regional operations team will continue its direct reporting relationsh= ip=20 within its business unit, and will collaborate with Sally in the delivery o= f=20 these critical items. The Houston-based risk management operations team und= er=20 Sue Frusco=01,s leadership, which currently supports risk management activi= ties=20 for South America and Australia, will also report directly to Sally.  =20 Sally retains her role as Vice President of  Energy Operations for Enron=20 North America, reporting to the ENA Office of the Chairman.  She has been i= n=20 her current role over Energy Operations since 1997, where she manages risk= =20 consolidation and reporting, risk management administration, physical produ= ct=20 delivery, confirmations and cash management for ENA=01,s physical commodity= =20 trading, energy derivatives trading and financial products trading. =20 Sally has been with Enron since 1992, when she joined the company as a=20 manager in Global Credit.  Prior to joining Enron,  Sally had four years=20 experience as a commercial banker and spent seven years as a registered=20 securities principal with a regional investment banking firm.  She also own= ed=20 and managed a retail business for several years.=20 Please join me in supporting Sally in this additional coordination role for= =20 
FYI - This should make things easier in London as there will be one point person to focus on global.  I am not sure that her background will bring a lot to the table in the early stages, but she did seem sharp when I met with her last week.  This announcement did surprise me a bit, as when I last talked with Fernley he was not leaning in the direction of utilizing Tani in this role.  ---Sally 
Did not see your names below 
I am pleased to announce that, effective immediately, Tani Nath, currently VP in Asset Development in London, will be moving to take up a newly created role as Head of Global Products Trading Support. Tani will report to me and be responsible for leading and co-ordinating all trading support functions for our world-wide operations in Global Products. Kevin Sweeney and Tim Poullain-Patterson, Controllers in Houston and London respectively, will report directly to Tani. Please join me in congratulating Tani and welcoming her in her new role. Fernley Dyson Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 
Kevin Sweeney forwarded this message to me.  Fernley may have made you aware of his decision with Tani when you and he talked yesterday.  If not, I thought that you might be interested in this.  --Sally 
Did not see your names below 
I am pleased to announce that, effective immediately, Tani Nath, currently VP in Asset Development in London, will be moving to take up a newly created role as Head of Global Products Trading Support. Tani will report to me and be responsible for leading and co-ordinating all trading support functions for our world-wide operations in Global Products. Kevin Sweeney and Tim Poullain-Patterson, Controllers in Houston and London respectively, will report directly to Tani. Please join me in congratulating Tani and welcoming her in her new role. Fernley Dyson Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 
Approved. Sally Beck 
Am just back from Disneyworld (Tyler loved it, so you will have a great time in a few weeks) today, and I did get your message.  I will talk with Kristin this afternoon.  I agree that Edith would be great.  I will let you know if there is someone else that we can make available if Edith doesn't work.  I will leave you a message tonight before I go on status.  --Sally Barry Pearce 03/07/2000 10:07 AM 
I left you a voice-mail. Is there anybody with EnPower Risk experience we could borrow for 3/4 weeks to help us split our books? I know Edith Cross would do a great job. Anybody else available? Start date - yesterday etc... B. 
Please print 3 copies for me in color.  Thanks. 
I would definitely talk with Wes Colwell about doing the presentation on 
The responsibility for granting access to the DPR and associated reports available through the Executive Viewer on line is being shifted from Scott Tholen's team to my operations team.   (This makes a lot of sense, since it is our group that prepares all of these reports.)  Fernley Dyson has requested access to this information via the Executive Viewer.  In insuring a tight distribution list for these reports, please let me know via return e:mail or voice mail (x35926) that you would like for Fernley to have access 
Please share this info with Mom and Dad: Hotel: Hotel Royal Plaza (with Klein High School Bearkadettes) Phone:  (407) 828-2828 Air Travel: Miami Air charter leaving IAH at 4:30 PM on Thursday, March 2 
Hotel in Orlanda: Thursday PM through Monday AM Hotel Royal Plaza Phone:  407-828-2828 Flight is charter on Miami Air, leaving IAH at about 4:30PM on March 2 (Thursday), and returning about 6:30 PM to IAH on March 6 (Monday). I do not plan on checking messages, so if something critical comes up, please leave me a message at the hotel.  We are there with the Klein High School 
Thanks for making the arrangements in Boerne!  It's interesting to know that the mustard men are real and not just a made up story for tourists. 
I will be out of the office on vacation on Thursday, Friday and Monday, March 2, 3, and 6th.  My assistant, Patti Thompson (x39106) will have telephone and fax numbers for the hotel where I will be staying.  I will be at Disneyworld with my family and 90 members of my daughter's high school drill team, so it is not likely that I will be available during the daytime.  However, I can be contacted at the hotel in the evening, if needed. While I am out, please contact the following for any operational needs: Brent Price   Business Controller for Natural Gas  x37647 Kristin Albrecht *   Business Controller for Power   x34763 *  Kristin will be in the office in the morning only on March 6: she will be in route to Portland in the afternoon. 
Rick:  Sorry, I should have sent this to you several days ago.  Is the level of detail correct on these goals as you look to assimilate these with others?  I have stated the goals, but not the action plan to achieve the goals.  I am working on those in some detail right now.   --Sally Goals for 2000 Global Risk Management Operations I.  Build/Enhance Operational and Controls Infrastructure to Support: A.  Merchant Activities Japan Southern Cone Continental Europe Other regions as identified B.  Emerging Businesses/Products Enron Broadband Services Credit Trading Other products as identified C.  Joint Ventures II.  Strengthen Mid and Back Office Talent and Controls for Global Risk Management Operations A.  Establish common operational standards,with effective exception reporting B.   Strengthen and support the controls mindset in key operational personnel C.  Develop a plan to identify, develop and provide rotational opportunities to key operations employees D.  Continue to coordinate with IT to develop mid and back office systems that allow for timely and accurate compilation of data across  systems for risk and business reporting 
Rick:  Sorry, I should have sent this to you several days ago.  Is the level of detail correct on these goals as you look to assimilate these with others?  I have stated the goals, but not the action plan to achieve the goals.  I am working on those in some detail right now.   --Sally Goals for 2000 Global Risk Management Operations I.  Build/Enhance Operational and Controls Infrastructure to Support: A.  Merchant Activities Japan Southern Cone Continental Europe Other regions as identified B.  Emerging Businesses/Products Enron Broadband Services Credit Trading Other products as identified C.  Joint Ventures II.  Strengthen Mid and Back Office Talent and Controls for Global Risk Management Operations A.  Establish common operational standards,with effective exception reporting B.   Strengthen and support the controls mindset in key operational personnel C.  Develop a plan to identify, develop and provide rotational opportunities to key operations employees D.  Continue to coordinate with IT to develop mid and back office systems that allow for timely and accurate compilation of data across  systems for risk and business reporting 
Per your request. Amy 
Sharron, Please see the attached doc for the 3.30pm conf call, please print of a color copy for Rick Buy & Rick Causey. Niki 
Was it not January when we were back and forth and back and forth to London/Helsinki?  And despite the fact that the date sequence from London looks funny, it would seem that Nigel on the 17th of February is talking about beginning the process (actually debating the process) of background checks? 
If they are still employed (presuming all but Ilkka are still on the payroll) then I believe this should be requested.  As a matter of principal it should have been done for all in the first place and there should be no reason why it could not be done now.  Admittedly the reasons will now be obvious for the request, we can simply tell those checked that it was overlooked originally. Relative to Ilkka, there is no harm in requesting it as well.  Presuming he won't consent then we can discuss further. Nigel Sellens 17/02/2000 07:41 
I have made contact with the security folks in Houston and been advised of what we need to do.  One obvious point is to understand the legal aspects of such a check.  I have now spoken to a Finnish lawyer who has advised that any employee background check (to include credit checks and bank checks) must have the prior written approval of the employee concerned and this would need to be provided to the source of the information before it is handed over. I assume we need to re-think whether we want to go down this route given that this check process will now have a very visible profile in the Helsinki office. What are your views? 
With my recent travel, I am days (maybe weeks) behind on e:mail.  I didn't see my name on the attachment.  Do I have access to this? 
Please print a color copy for me of the two attachments to Kate's memo. Thanks. 
Joe, Mike and Kent Thank you again for your offices' assistance  when we visited last week. I have attached the drafts of the Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires reports.  Please review and let me know any comments or questions.  We are trying to finalize the reports as soon as possible so your response is greatly appreciated. Regards Kate Agnew 
Is this what you have from AA as a format/information that they are comfortable with?  --Sally 
Sally, The following attachment is the latest example of the ""Curve Validation Summary"" that we have in ""soft copy"" form. We do have several, more recent, hard copies of the curve validation summary, but we felt that this attachment would better facilitate you. Sincerely, Jack Ehrig 
Ted Murphy and I met with the Arther Andersen team this morning that accompanied us on our trip to Buenos Aires.  We reviewed the observations and recommendations in written form that we had discussed briefly with you on our last day your office.  After making a few changes, AA should be forwarding to you a copy of the draft document later this afternoon.   We would welcome your comments and your additions on anything that you think we may have missed.  Ted and I will be meeting with Rick Causey and Rick Buy within the next couple of days to discuss our operations and control review, so your responses would be welcomed prior to that meeting. I look forward to working with you and others in your office in my role over Global Risk Management Operations.  In addition to overseeing common standards and controls for opeartional practices, I will work as your advocate for system and resource needs in order to insure success for your 
Ted Murphy and I met this morning with the Arthur Andersen team that accompanied us to Sao Paulo.  We reviewed a summary of our observations and recommendations as a result of our visit.  After a few suggested changes, AA should forward a copy of this draft to you via e:mail later today.  We would welcome your comments on the document, and input on anything that you think we may have missed.  Ted and I will be reviewing this information with Rick Buy and Rick Causey as soon as a meeting can be scheduled, so your prompt 
My travel lately has not allowed time to interview.  Gretchen Jennings in HR is supposed to be setting up interviews with appropriate candidates for me. She has a stack of all of the resumes that either I have received or those that responded to the posting.  I hope to start interviewing next week, although I will only be in the office Monday through Wednesday.  Feel free to move forward with whatever you need to do.  I trust that I will have several good candidates to consider, and Patti is doing a great job, also.  I need to 
Peggy Hedstrom will be out of the office from March 1 - 11 for vacation. Our spring break week is March 13, so I have sent Peggy a note asking about sometime the week of March 20 or 27.  I will let you know her reply and then I would love to do a joint trip! Wanda Curry 02/15/2000 04:25 PM 
What a good idea.  I am in Canada today because of some changing of the guard that needed to take place.  Could be persuaded to come with you when you return. Wanda 
I have not been able to schedule a review with Peggy yet, as I am still trying to schedule a trip to Calgary so that Peggy and I can do her review. She will be out of town from March 1 through March 11, so I will have to come to Calgary sometime after March 11.  I was in South America last week, and have been to London and Helsinki twice since mid-January, so scheduling reviews is a challenge this time around.  I will certainly get you a signed 
Clare, Barry left me voicemail saying 1:30-2:30 pm would probably be okay - I will tentatively put that in Sally's calendar.  We can change later if need be. Thanks, 
Barry, Sally asked me to forward this to you FYI.  A lot of people will be tied up all day Feb 29 at this offsite.  She would, however, like to set up time to meet with you in Houston on Wednesday, March 1.  Sally is available from 1:30 - 5:00 in the afternoon.  Please let me know if there is a one hour slot that will work for you. Thanks, Patti Thompson x39106 (Sally's Assistant) 
Please see attached memo. 
Ted, Sally asked me to forward this to you FYI. Patti 
Wanda I have just spoken with Barry about arranging a visit for him to Houston.  He mentioned the week of 28 February being good for him.  I hope this will suit you and wonder if it will be possible to arrange any meetings with him on the Tuesday 29 Feb and Wednesday  1 March? I will book for him to arrive on the Monday and leave Houston on the Thursday. Kind regards Clare. 
Another FAS 133 Offsite meeting has been scheduled for Tuesday, Feb 29 (all day).  Sally asked me to forward this to you - would like you to attend if at all possible.  Scott, this is an FYI for you - I know you will be overseas on this date. Patti 
Please see attached memo. 
Sally asked me to forward this to you. Patti 
Please see attached memo. 
Thanks for this info.  I will call the students this week.  With your notes, it looks as if we may be on target in terms of acceptances and the desired number of 6.  Keep me posted on what we hear from the students.  --Sally Enron North America Corp. 
Paige, Sheila Glover and Scott Earnest will be attending for Sally.  Mike Moscoso is out of town. 
Mike & Scott, Sally asked me to forward this to you & wanted to know if there was any way possible you could attend. I apologize for the short notice, but with Sally going out of the country, things have been really hectic.   Sheila Glover will also be attending. Please let me know as soon as possible & I will let Paige know. Thanks, Patti x 39106 
Kent, Please forward this to Sally Beck. Thanks, Patti 
Greetings. Attached is the Argentine gas process flow, which has been under review for the past month or so by Mike Guerriero, his staff in BA and my group in Houston.   The Southern Cone trading support is based off of this model, so it also applies to power in BA and SP.   I do have process flows for power in both places, but I would like to revisit them prior to distribution.   If you would like them regardless, just let me know and I will pass them along asap. I hope you have a successful trip.   Please let me know how I can be of help.   I am curious to hear your findings. Sue (713.349.0733 [home]; 713.703.3706 [mobile]) 
I have asked Patti to send Sharron a list of all employees within Energy Operations (a BIG list) and another one with managers and above (perhaps a more manageable list) for this effort.  Since you went to the meeting I didn't know whether or not you were following up on this.  Just wanted to let you know that I have asked Patti to do this.  Thanks. 
In staff meeting last week, Rick mentioned that he would like to sponsor a year-end celebration for accounting employees and spouses sometime in the next month.  I need a list of accounting personnel in your group.  We need this ASAP because the number of employees will determine the size of the facility needed. 
I think that this was great, too.  I look forward to the next one.  Would you like to coordinate dinner plans for the next lecture? 
Approved.  Please process. Thanks, Sally Beck 
FYI - I had included Diane Seib and Melinda Whalen (from Calgary) in my promotion memo from Energy Operations.  I believe that they both work under Peggy Hedstrom in operational roles.  I am sure that they didn't mind having their names included twice in promotional memos! Peggy says that you and Juanita are headed to Calgary next week, and she wondered if I would be coming.  I will be in South America in what should be summer there.  I do plan to make a trip to Calgary soon.  In addition to other things that Peggy and I have to cover, I plan to host a happy hour in Calgary to honor Peggy's promotion and Diane and Melinda, also.  I hosted a happy hour in Houston for Energy Operations employees who were promoted last 
I won't be able to join Wanda and Juanita in Calgary next week.  I will find myself in South America next week, in Sao Paolo and Buenos Aires.  Should be interesting, but a long flight.  I am cross referencing my calendar with your vacation days, and I will get back with you later today on a suggested date 
Congratulations on your promotion to Senior Director, a promotion that is 
Congratulations on your promotion to Senior Director.  That makes all of the 
Thanks for the resume.  She has had some good experience.  Do you know much about her performance here at Enron?  Can I call and talk with her directly? I would certainly keep the conversation confidential at this point.  --Sally Vince J Kaminski 11/21/2000 08:14 AM 
I am sending you a resume of  Renee Smith, an employee of EBS. She is considering  a transfer at some point to another position within Enron. She has a lot of brokerage industry experience and she is very enthusiastic about Enron. No need to mention it's a confidential request. Have a very happy Thanksgiving. Vince 
Congratulations on your promotion to Senior Director, a promotion that is very well deserved.  You do an amazing job of balancing children and work, 
Please print a color copy of this for me.  Thanks. 
Friday at 2:00 pm  --does that work for you?  --Sally Amita Gosalia 02/07/2000 11:07 AM 
Hi Sally I think I'll be in EOL meetings on Thursday and probably won't be able to make lunch. Can we schedule a meeting for Friday please.  Currently I have the whole day free so you pick a time which is convenient for you.  I shall book other meetings after I have heard back from you. Regards Amita Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Friday won't work for me for lunch this week, but Thursday is open for me at this point.  Would that day work for you?  If lunch won't work, then we will plan some time on the calendar for Thursday or Friday.  Let me know.   I will look forward to seeing you. 
Thanks for keeping me posted on this.  Do let me know if there are further 
Friday won't work for me for lunch this week, but Thursday is open for me at this point.  Would that day work for you?  If lunch won't work, then we will plan some time on the calendar for Thursday or Friday.  Let me know.   I will 
The draft of the memo looks good.  However, your memo says that the memo will be sent to all US employees of ENA.  ENA by definition includes Canada and Mexico.  Therefore, please send the memo to all ENA employees, not just those in the US.  Several of those referenced in the memo as being promoted work in our Calgary office, so the memo should certainly be sent to those employees 
Please distribute attached memo to all Enron North America employees.  If you need additional information, please call my assistant, Patti Thompson at ext. 39106. Thank you, Sally Beck Vice President of Energy Operations 
This made it!  We are still waiting today to find out if we can get a Visa today.  If so, I will be on the way to South America on Sunday evening.  If Chris' associate has any recommendations, I would love to hear them. Thanks.  --Sally ""White, Cara"" <CWhite@texas.usta.com> on 02/04/2000 10:42:16 AM 
Our other sister says this e-mail will work.   Let me know if you get this by e-mailing me back!   By the way, if you need any tips for South America, one of the guys who works with Chris is from Brazil - and a bunch of them travel down there . . . cw 
It does work!  We enjoyed seeing you, also.  Thanks for letting us crash 
Brent & Peggy, Memo complete with exception of last paragraph write-up of your promotions. Sally made a beginning stab at it, but would like you to read over your segment and make any corrections or additions that you see fit (Peggy, in your case, can you fill in the blank).  When these are received back from you, I will call her (if it's this afternoon), and final copy will be distributed.  Thanks for your help. Patti x39106 
How about our resources?   Is there someone working on Entelligence now for us that could at least temporarily be redirected to work on updating GCP appropriately? 
??  Will IT resources make a difference in what we need to deliver and how quickly we can do it?  Someone must be giving credit the idea that ""if only we had IT resources..."" and that those resources are active on Entelligence but are not helping us on other business basics.  --Sally 
I certainly agree that updated information from the wider company database should flow to update GCP.  I assume that you have talked with both Mary Solmonson and James Scribner about this process to understand the details. They are the logical experts for that discussion.  Your memo is a little vague on that, so if you are getting information from someone else and have not taken the time to talk with the best sources, I would suggest spending time with James and Mary so that you and they are appropriately informed. Absolutely there are procedures in place to handle these updates to GCP.  I believe that these are pretty manual, as there are no systematic feeds from Entelligence into GCP.  James and Mary (I refer to both because James has only recently assumed Mary's duties within Global Databases) can best discuss how this process works.  If you are aware of specific concerns around this, I know that James and Mary will want to hear that from you.  As is to be expected for any business that has experienced a 600% increase in the number of transactions year on year, there are challenges that we face daily in all of the tasks that we do.  Your input will help James in making sure that priorities are set and personnel are deployed to tackle the biggest issues that we have.  I recognize the challenge that Credit must be facing in aggregating exposures in our market environment today.  With your input, we will do our very best to be certain that the data surrounding the 5.000+ deals that are done daily is as accurate as possible. 
Thanks  -- definitely not too late.  --Sally Rob Milnthorp 11/20/2000 11:52 AM 
I apologize for not getting the requested feedback reviews completed by Nov 17. However, I completed them over the weekend and I hope that its not too late to include my  feedback  in your compiled reviews. Regards Milnthorp 
Approved.  Please process. Thanks, Sally Beck 
The attachment on Ted's memo contains the list of students who will attend the luncheon tomorrow.  Thanks again for doing this! --Sally 
I will be attending a funeral in Austin on Thursday.  I can be reached on my cell phone (713-417-1951) in the morning and afternoon while driving to and from Austin.  If you need immediate information and I can not be reached on my cell phone, please contact Brent Price at x37647.  I will be back in the 
FYI...Thanks for going.  --Sally 
REMINDER  A CAO Staff Meeting is scheduled for Thursday, Feb. 3   from 10:00 - 11:00 in EB19C1. The call in numbers for this meeting are: 800 263-2234    or     423 544-7783 Participant code 884109 
Approved.  Please process.  Thanks. Sally Beck 
Sally, Below is Stephen's expense report for your approval please.  Thank you. Kim Perkins 
David, Can you resend 1/26/00 MPR?  I mistakingly deleted file before all worksheets were printed. Thanks, 
Please join us for a celebration of Energy Operations promotions, hosted by ENA Energy Operations Management Team.  The following people will be honored at Irma's (22 N. Chenevert @ Franklin) on Thursday, February 3, 2000 from 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm. Brent Price  Kristin Albrecht   Brenda Herod Leslie Reeves  Mary Solmonson  Scott Pleus Sheri Thomas  Bennett Kaufman  Richard McKeel John Postlewaite Sylvia Campos   Kam Keiser Phillip Love  Anthony Campos  Kori Loibl Trang Le  Donnie Vinson   Imelda Frayre Amy Degeyter  Michael Nguyen  Sherlyn Schumack Karie Hastings  Leslie Smith Please RSVP by Friday, January 31 to Patti at ext. 39106 or e-mail reply. Directions will be available Monday at Patti's desk (3012f). Hope to see you there! 
I can not attend as I will be in the London office for the remainder of the 
Please forward to James Scribner.  He will call with his e:mail address. = =20 
Recognizing Enron=01,s increasing worldwide presence in the wholesale energ= y=20 business and the need to insure outstanding internal controls for all of ou= r=20 risk management activities, regardless of location, a global risk managemen= t=20 operations function has been created under the direction of Sally W. Beck,= =20 Vice President.  In this role, Sally will report to Rick Causey, Executive= =20 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. =20 Sally=01,s responsibilities with regard to Global Risk Management Operation= s=20 will mirror those of other recently created Enron global functions.  In thi= s=20 role, Sally will work closely with all Enron geographic regions and wholesa= le=20 companies to insure that each entity receives individualized regional suppo= rt=20 while also focusing on the following global responsibilities: 1. Enhance communication among risk management operations professionals. 2. Assure the proliferation of best operational practices around the globe.= =20 3. Facilitate the allocation of human resources. =20 4. Provide training for risk management operations personnel. 5. Coordinate user requirements for shared operational systems.=20 6. Oversee the creation of a global internal control audit plan for risk=20 management activities. 7. Establish procedures for opening new risk management operations offices= =20 and create key benchmarks for measuring on-going risk controls.  =20 Each regional operations team will continue its direct reporting relationsh= ip=20 within its business unit, and will collaborate with Sally in the delivery o= f=20 these critical items. The Houston-based risk management operations team und= er=20 Sue Frusco=01,s leadership, which currently supports risk management activi= ties=20 for South America and Australia, will also report directly to Sally.  =20 Sally retains her role as Vice President of  Energy Operations for Enron=20 North America, reporting to the ENA Office of the Chairman.  She has been i= n=20 her current role over Energy Operations since 1997, where she manages risk= =20 consolidation and reporting, risk management administration, physical produ= ct=20 delivery, confirmations and cash management for ENA=01,s physical commodity= =20 trading, energy derivatives trading and financial products trading. =20 Sally has been with Enron since 1992, when she joined the company as a=20 manager in Global Credit.  Prior to joining Enron,  Sally had four years=20 experience as a commercial banker and spent seven years as a registered=20 securities principal with a regional investment banking firm.  She also own= ed=20 and managed a retail business for several years.=20 Please join me in supporting Sally in this additional coordination role for= =20 
I will be out of the office on Tuesday, so have a great time without me. Have a great Thanksgiving. --Sally 11/20/2000 10:58 AM Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON 11/20/2000 10:58 AM 11/20/2000 10:58 AM 
Please join us at Kenneally's, Tuesday, Nov. 21st. at 6:00pm for a Teambuilding Happy Hour before the Thanksgiving Holiday break.  If you have any questions, please feel free to call Maria Sandoval (x35586) or myself at x31914. Thanks, Brenda 
Thanks for forwarding mail to me.  I apologize for the inconvenience of this.  My current e:mail address is sally.beck@enron.com, as suggested within the past few months by the technology group that all addresses use the long name.   HOWEVER, my e:mail address prior to that was sbeck@ect.enron.com. That was printed on my business cards, many of which are still in circulation I am sure.  When ECT became ENA, I changed my e:mail address to drop the ect reference and to use my long name rather than sbeck.  So I can see why you would receive my mail on occassion if someone is either making an educated guess on the address or referencing my old card.  SInce there are at least 2 sbeck's here, have you thought about adopting use of your long name address rather than the shorter version to help in further differentiating between 
Thanks for the note.  While most of my focus will be on ENA, it will be 
Please find out location of this conference call and put the details on my calendar.  Thanks. -- Sally 
Beth - Here are the details of the VC on Thursday Sally - obviously this is 9am CST - I'm not sure where the VC takes place in Houston - hopefully Wanda/Philippe/Cindy can tell you cheers John 
At last I have managed to find a date that is convenient to most of you. THURSDAY 27 JANUARY 2000 15:00 (GMT) (2 hours) Video conference (5th floor VC room 1) Attendees: Wanda Curry Philippe Bibi Cindy Morrow Ian Sloman Michael Dugdale John Paskin Optional Melissa Becker Mark Pickering Fernley Dyson Moria Brown Many thanks for all your help. I have already sent out the invitation this is just for your information. Thanks Ann-Louise Pearce x34015 
Please put my name on the list to attend this forum on Wednesday, January 
I always have time for lunch!  I will ask my assistant to call you to set 
Thanks for the note.  I am glad that you are enjoying Portland.  I am still on the 30th floor, so do drop by sometime when you are in town.  I would love 
Thanks -- I now know that you read notes mail messages very promptly! 
Thanks for the note, Sherri.  I know that you read notes mail messages very 
I am out of the office all day on Wednesday. --Sally 11/20/2000 01:43 PM Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON Brenda Flores-Cuellar@ENRON 11/20/2000 01:43 PM 11/20/2000 01:43 PM 
Maria and I are trying to get an idea of how many of you guys and gals will actually be here on Wednesday and for how long.  Please let us know as soon as possible. Thanks, Brenda 
Two of you had to leave the staff meeting before this final discussion point and three of you were not in attendance, so I wanted to send you the attached memo that I distributed at the end of the meeting.  This memo will be sent by Rick Causey via notes mail regarding an additional role that I will assume with regard to global operations.  I shared this in the staff meeting so that you would be the first to know.  I will still fulfill my role within ENA as VP of Energy Operations.  I will not be going away!  This expanded responsibility should create addtional opportunities for operations personnel and will validate some of the global functions that we already provide to the organization. 
It is officially on the way!  We will see how long it takes to get=20 distributed.  --Sally=20 
The following memo needs to be sent to all Enron Employees from Rick Causey= . Recognizing Enron=01,s increasing worldwide presence in the wholesale energ= y=20 business and the need to insure outstanding internal controls for all of ou= r=20 risk management activities, regardless of location, a global risk managemen= t=20 operations function has been created under the direction of Sally W. Beck,= =20 Vice President.  In this role, Sally will report to Rick Causey, Executive= =20 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. =20 Sally=01,s responsibilities with regard to Global Risk Management Operation= s=20 will mirror those of other recently created Enron global functions.  In thi= s=20 role, Sally will work closely with all Enron geographic regions and wholesa= le=20 companies to insure that each entity receives individualized regional suppo= rt=20 while also focusing on the following global responsibilities: 1. Enhance communication among risk management operations professionals. 2. Assure the proliferation of best operational practices around the globe.= =20 3. Facilitate the allocation of human resources. =20 4. Provide training for risk management operations personnel. 5. Coordinate user requirements for shared operational systems.=20 6. Oversee the creation of a global internal control audit plan for risk=20 management activities. 7. Establish procedures for opening new risk management operations offices= =20 and create key benchmarks for measuring on-going risk controls.  =20 Each regional operations team will continue its direct reporting relationsh= ip=20 within its business unit, and will collaborate with Sally in the delivery o= f=20 these critical items. The Houston-based risk management operations team und= er=20 Sue Frusco=01,s leadership, which currently supports risk management activi= ties=20 for South America and Australia, will also report directly to Sally.  =20 Sally retains her role as Vice President of  Energy Operations for Enron=20 North America, reporting to the ENA Office of the Chairman.  She has been i= n=20 her current role over Energy Operations since 1997, where she manages risk= =20 consolidation and reporting, risk management administration, physical produ= ct=20 delivery, confirmations and cash management for ENA=01,s physical commodity= =20 trading, energy derivatives trading and financial products trading. =20 Sally has been with Enron since 1992, when she joined the company as a=20 manager in Global Credit.  Prior to joining Enron,  Sally had four years=20 experience as a commercial banker and spent seven years as a registered=20 securities principal with a regional investment banking firm.  She also own= ed=20 and managed a retail business for several years.=20 Please join me in supporting Sally in this additional coordination role for= =20 global risk management operations.=20 
I liked the new signs for the new hire network this morning, as opposed to the signs for new hire orientation.  Just wanted to let you know that I noticed the difference!  I will be curious to hear about changes to the content as well. Hope your are doing well.  We will have to have lunch after you get through 
This is the most immediate response that I have ever gotten on notes mail! Just let me know and I will be there.  Thanks. John Paskin 01/14/2000 11:07 AM 
Sally I don't know yet - I'll try and find out who is organising the VC from the Houston end cheers John Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
Thanks for the note about the video conference.  I have put that date on my calendar and I am very interested in the discussion.  Any details on where I need to go in Houston to join in?  --Sally John Paskin 01/14/2000 03:43 AM 
Sally We are running a videoconference between London and Houston on Thursday 27th Jan at 9am CST/3pm GMT.  The topic of the meeting is 'Lessons Learned by Enron Europe about the SAP Apollo implementation'.  Attendees including Philippe Bibi, Cindy Morrow, Mark Pickering, Ian Sloman.   You are more than welcome to attend if you would like cheers John 
Is Sally Beck invited to your videoconference?  Woul dthis be useful for her?  i am interested in understanding more about your comment that ""barriers dissolving between settlements, cash, and accounting teams"", and I imagine she would be too. 
Thanks for the note about the video conference.  I have put that date on my calendar and I am very interested in the discussion.  Any details on where I need to go in Houston to join in?  --Sally John Paskin 01/14/2000 03:43 AM 
Sally We are running a videoconference between London and Houston on Thursday 27th Jan at 9am CST/3pm GMT.  The topic of the meeting is 'Lessons Learned by Enron Europe about the SAP Apollo implementation'.  Attendees including Philippe Bibi, Cindy Morrow, Mark Pickering, Ian Sloman.   You are more than welcome to attend if you would like cheers John 
Is Sally Beck invited to your videoconference?  Woul dthis be useful for her?  i am interested in understanding more about your comment that ""barriers dissolving between settlements, cash, and accounting teams"", and I imagine she would be too. 
Please take these meetings off my calendar.  Thanks! 