Attached is a summary of the Jan 13 Davis-Summers summit on the California power situation.  We will be discussing this at the 2:00 call today. 
We met with Gov Davis on Thursday evening in LA.  In attendance were Ken Lay, the Governor, the Governor's staff director (Kari Dohn) and myself.  The gov. spent over an hour and a half with us covering our suggestions and his ideas.  He would like some additional thoughts from us by Tuesday of next week as he prepares his state of the state address for the following Monday. Attached to the end of this memo is a list of solutions we proposed (based on my discussions with several of you) as well as some background materials Jeff Dasovich and I prepared.  Below are my notes from the meeting regarding our proposals, the governor's ideas, as well as my overview of the situation based on the governor's comments: Overview:   We made great progress in both ensuring that he understands that we are different from the generators and in opening a channel for ongoing communication with his administration. The gov does not want the utilities to go bankrupt and seems predisposed to both rate relief (more modest than what the utilities are looking for) and credit guarantees.  His staff has more work to do on the latter, but he was clearly intrigued with the idea.  He talked mainly in terms of raising rates but not uncapping them at the retail level.  He also wants to use what generation he has control over for the benefit of California consumers, including utility-owned generation (which he would dedicate to consumers on a cost-plus basis) and excess muni power (which he estimates at 3000MW).  He foresees a mix of market oriented solutions as well as interventionist solutions which will allow him to fix the problem by '02 and provide some political cover. Our proposals:  I have attached the outline we put in front of him (it also included the forward price information several of you provided).  He seemed interested in 1) the buy down of significant demand, 2) the state setting a goal of x000 MW of new generation by a date certain, 3) getting the utilities to gradually buy more power forward and 4) setting up a group of rate analysts and other ""nonadvocates"" to develop solutions to a number of issues including designing the portfolio and forward purchase terms for utilities. He was also quite interested in examining the incentives surrounding LDC gas purchases.   As already mentioned, he was also favorably disposed to finding some state sponsored credit support for the utilities. His ideas:  The gov read from a list of ideas some of which were obviously under serious consideration and some of which were mere ""brainstorming"". Some of these ideas would require legislative action. State may build (or make build/transfer arrangements) a ""couple"" of generation plants.  The gov feels strongly that he has to show consumers that they are getting something in return for bearing some rate increases.  This was a frequently recurring theme. Utilities would sell the output from generation they still own on a cost-plus basis to consumers. Municipal utilties would be required to sell their excess generation in California. State universities (including UC/CSU and the community colleges) would more widely deploy distributed generation. Expand in-state gas production. Take state lands gas royalties in kind. negotiate directly with tribes and state governments in the west for addtional gas supplies. Empower an existing state agency to approve/coordinate power plant maintenance schedules to avoid having too much generation out of service at any one time. Condition emissions offsets on commitments to sell power longer term in state. Either eliminate the ISO or sharply curtail its function -- he wants to hear more about how Nordpool works(Jeff- someone in Schroeder's group should be able to help out here). Wants to condition new generation on a commitment to sell in state.  We made some headway with the idea that he could instead require utilities to buy some portion of their forward requirements from new in-state generation thereby accomplishing the same thing without using a command and control approach with generators. Securitize uncollected power purchase costs. To dos: (Jeff, again I'd like to prevail on you to assemble the group's thoughts and get them to Kari) He wants to see 5 year fixed power prices for peak/ off-peak and baseload -- not just the 5 one year strips. He wants comments on his proposals by Tuesday. He would like thoughts on how to pitch what consumers are getting out of the deal. He wants to assemble a group of energy gurus to help sort through some of the forward contracting issues. Thanks to everyone for their help.  We made some progress today. 
Attached is a summary of the Jan 13 Davis-Summers summit on the California power situation.  We will be discussing this at the 2:00 call today. 
We met with Gov Davis on Thursday evening in LA.  In attendance were Ken Lay, the Governor, the Governor's staff director (Kari Dohn) and myself.  The gov. spent over an hour and a half with us covering our suggestions and his ideas.  He would like some additional thoughts from us by Tuesday of next week as he prepares his state of the state address for the following Monday. Attached to the end of this memo is a list of solutions we proposed (based on my discussions with several of you) as well as some background materials Jeff Dasovich and I prepared.  Below are my notes from the meeting regarding our proposals, the governor's ideas, as well as my overview of the situation based on the governor's comments: Overview:   We made great progress in both ensuring that he understands that we are different from the generators and in opening a channel for ongoing communication with his administration. The gov does not want the utilities to go bankrupt and seems predisposed to both rate relief (more modest than what the utilities are looking for) and credit guarantees.  His staff has more work to do on the latter, but he was clearly intrigued with the idea.  He talked mainly in terms of raising rates but not uncapping them at the retail level.  He also wants to use what generation he has control over for the benefit of California consumers, including utility-owned generation (which he would dedicate to consumers on a cost-plus basis) and excess muni power (which he estimates at 3000MW).  He foresees a mix of market oriented solutions as well as interventionist solutions which will allow him to fix the problem by '02 and provide some political cover. Our proposals:  I have attached the outline we put in front of him (it also included the forward price information several of you provided).  He seemed interested in 1) the buy down of significant demand, 2) the state setting a goal of x000 MW of new generation by a date certain, 3) getting the utilities to gradually buy more power forward and 4) setting up a group of rate analysts and other ""nonadvocates"" to develop solutions to a number of issues including designing the portfolio and forward purchase terms for utilities. He was also quite interested in examining the incentives surrounding LDC gas purchases.   As already mentioned, he was also favorably disposed to finding some state sponsored credit support for the utilities. His ideas:  The gov read from a list of ideas some of which were obviously under serious consideration and some of which were mere ""brainstorming"". Some of these ideas would require legislative action. State may build (or make build/transfer arrangements) a ""couple"" of generation plants.  The gov feels strongly that he has to show consumers that they are getting something in return for bearing some rate increases.  This was a frequently recurring theme. Utilities would sell the output from generation they still own on a cost-plus basis to consumers. Municipal utilties would be required to sell their excess generation in California. State universities (including UC/CSU and the community colleges) would more widely deploy distributed generation. Expand in-state gas production. Take state lands gas royalties in kind. negotiate directly with tribes and state governments in the west for addtional gas supplies. Empower an existing state agency to approve/coordinate power plant maintenance schedules to avoid having too much generation out of service at any one time. Condition emissions offsets on commitments to sell power longer term in state. Either eliminate the ISO or sharply curtail its function -- he wants to hear more about how Nordpool works(Jeff- someone in Schroeder's group should be able to help out here). Wants to condition new generation on a commitment to sell in state.  We made some headway with the idea that he could instead require utilities to buy some portion of their forward requirements from new in-state generation thereby accomplishing the same thing without using a command and control approach with generators. Securitize uncollected power purchase costs. To dos: (Jeff, again I'd like to prevail on you to assemble the group's thoughts and get them to Kari) He wants to see 5 year fixed power prices for peak/ off-peak and baseload -- not just the 5 one year strips. He wants comments on his proposals by Tuesday. He would like thoughts on how to pitch what consumers are getting out of the deal. He wants to assemble a group of energy gurus to help sort through some of the forward contracting issues. Thanks to everyone for their help.  We made some progress today. 
We met with Gov Davis on Thursday evening in LA.  In attendance were Ken Lay, the Governor, the Governor's staff director (Kari Dohn) and myself.  The gov. spent over an hour and a half with us covering our suggestions and his ideas.  He would like some additional thoughts from us by Tuesday of next week as he prepares his state of the state address for the following Monday. Attached to the end of this memo is a list of solutions we proposed (based on my discussions with several of you) as well as some background materials Jeff Dasovich and I prepared.  Below are my notes from the meeting regarding our proposals, the governor's ideas, as well as my overview of the situation based on the governor's comments: Overview:   We made great progress in both ensuring that he understands that we are different from the generators and in opening a channel for ongoing communication with his administration. The gov does not want the utilities to go bankrupt and seems predisposed to both rate relief (more modest than what the utilities are looking for) and credit guarantees.  His staff has more work to do on the latter, but he was clearly intrigued with the idea.  He talked mainly in terms of raising rates but not uncapping them at the retail level.  He also wants to use what generation he has control over for the benefit of California consumers, including utility-owned generation (which he would dedicate to consumers on a cost-plus basis) and excess muni power (which he estimates at 3000MW).  He foresees a mix of market oriented solutions as well as interventionist solutions which will allow him to fix the problem by '02 and provide some political cover. Our proposals:  I have attached the outline we put in front of him (it also included the forward price information several of you provided).  He seemed interested in 1) the buy down of significant demand, 2) the state setting a goal of x000 MW of new generation by a date certain, 3) getting the utilities to gradually buy more power forward and 4) setting up a group of rate analysts and other ""nonadvocates"" to develop solutions to a number of issues including designing the portfolio and forward purchase terms for utilities. He was also quite interested in examining the incentives surrounding LDC gas purchases.   As already mentioned, he was also favorably disposed to finding some state sponsored credit support for the utilities. His ideas:  The gov read from a list of ideas some of which were obviously under serious consideration and some of which were mere ""brainstorming"". Some of these ideas would require legislative action. State may build (or make build/transfer arrangements) a ""couple"" of generation plants.  The gov feels strongly that he has to show consumers that they are getting something in return for bearing some rate increases.  This was a frequently recurring theme. Utilities would sell the output from generation they still own on a cost-plus basis to consumers. Municipal utilties would be required to sell their excess generation in California. State universities (including UC/CSU and the community colleges) would more widely deploy distributed generation. Expand in-state gas production. Take state lands gas royalties in kind. negotiate directly with tribes and state governments in the west for addtional gas supplies. Empower an existing state agency to approve/coordinate power plant maintenance schedules to avoid having too much generation out of service at any one time. Condition emissions offsets on commitments to sell power longer term in state. Either eliminate the ISO or sharply curtail its function -- he wants to hear more about how Nordpool works(Jeff- someone in Schroeder's group should be able to help out here). Wants to condition new generation on a commitment to sell in state.  We made some headway with the idea that he could instead require utilities to buy some portion of their forward requirements from new in-state generation thereby accomplishing the same thing without using a command and control approach with generators. Securitize uncollected power purchase costs. To dos: (Jeff, again I'd like to prevail on you to assemble the group's thoughts and get them to Kari) He wants to see 5 year fixed power prices for peak/ off-peak and baseload -- not just the 5 one year strips. He wants comments on his proposals by Tuesday. He would like thoughts on how to pitch what consumers are getting out of the deal. He wants to assemble a group of energy gurus to help sort through some of the forward contracting issues. Thanks to everyone for their help.  We made some progress today. 
Attached is a summary of the Jan 13 Davis-Summers summit on the California power situation.  We will be discussing this at the 2:00 call today. 
Attached is a summary of the Jan 13 Davis-Summers summit on the California power situation.  We will be discussing this at the 2:00 call today. 
We met with Gov Davis on Thursday evening in LA.  In attendance were Ken Lay, the Governor, the Governor's staff director (Kari Dohn) and myself.  The gov. spent over an hour and a half with us covering our suggestions and his ideas.  He would like some additional thoughts from us by Tuesday of next week as he prepares his state of the state address for the following Monday. Attached to the end of this memo is a list of solutions we proposed (based on my discussions with several of you) as well as some background materials Jeff Dasovich and I prepared.  Below are my notes from the meeting regarding our proposals, the governor's ideas, as well as my overview of the situation based on the governor's comments: Overview:   We made great progress in both ensuring that he understands that we are different from the generators and in opening a channel for ongoing communication with his administration. The gov does not want the utilities to go bankrupt and seems predisposed to both rate relief (more modest than what the utilities are looking for) and credit guarantees.  His staff has more work to do on the latter, but he was clearly intrigued with the idea.  He talked mainly in terms of raising rates but not uncapping them at the retail level.  He also wants to use what generation he has control over for the benefit of California consumers, including utility-owned generation (which he would dedicate to consumers on a cost-plus basis) and excess muni power (which he estimates at 3000MW).  He foresees a mix of market oriented solutions as well as interventionist solutions which will allow him to fix the problem by '02 and provide some political cover. Our proposals:  I have attached the outline we put in front of him (it also included the forward price information several of you provided).  He seemed interested in 1) the buy down of significant demand, 2) the state setting a goal of x000 MW of new generation by a date certain, 3) getting the utilities to gradually buy more power forward and 4) setting up a group of rate analysts and other ""nonadvocates"" to develop solutions to a number of issues including designing the portfolio and forward purchase terms for utilities. He was also quite interested in examining the incentives surrounding LDC gas purchases.   As already mentioned, he was also favorably disposed to finding some state sponsored credit support for the utilities. His ideas:  The gov read from a list of ideas some of which were obviously under serious consideration and some of which were mere ""brainstorming"". Some of these ideas would require legislative action. State may build (or make build/transfer arrangements) a ""couple"" of generation plants.  The gov feels strongly that he has to show consumers that they are getting something in return for bearing some rate increases.  This was a frequently recurring theme. Utilities would sell the output from generation they still own on a cost-plus basis to consumers. Municipal utilties would be required to sell their excess generation in California. State universities (including UC/CSU and the community colleges) would more widely deploy distributed generation. Expand in-state gas production. Take state lands gas royalties in kind. negotiate directly with tribes and state governments in the west for addtional gas supplies. Empower an existing state agency to approve/coordinate power plant maintenance schedules to avoid having too much generation out of service at any one time. Condition emissions offsets on commitments to sell power longer term in state. Either eliminate the ISO or sharply curtail its function -- he wants to hear more about how Nordpool works(Jeff- someone in Schroeder's group should be able to help out here). Wants to condition new generation on a commitment to sell in state.  We made some headway with the idea that he could instead require utilities to buy some portion of their forward requirements from new in-state generation thereby accomplishing the same thing without using a command and control approach with generators. Securitize uncollected power purchase costs. To dos: (Jeff, again I'd like to prevail on you to assemble the group's thoughts and get them to Kari) He wants to see 5 year fixed power prices for peak/ off-peak and baseload -- not just the 5 one year strips. He wants comments on his proposals by Tuesday. He would like thoughts on how to pitch what consumers are getting out of the deal. He wants to assemble a group of energy gurus to help sort through some of the forward contracting issues. Thanks to everyone for their help.  We made some progress today. 
I think we need some clear indication that with Hogan on the Board this is not going to turn into a diatribe about the benefits of LMP.  He's the most informed of the bunch and I doubt he would find a general work of interest (unless he can create a platform for his more detailed ideas).  If it stays general, I think the study is a good idea.  One topic area might be to explore how politicians mess up the basic idea of deregualtion and suggest that the process needs to be handled in a more objective (and pure) fashion. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/16/2001 10:54 AM 
choice Great points.  Teece---and the lion's share of the folks on the participants list---are advocates of a minimalist role for government, particularly where markets are a clear and preferably option, as in the case of electricity. That said, I think we're going to have to make a fundamental decision about what the goal of this ""study"" would be, which will determine, to a large degree, whether we choose to pursue it. I'll throw out for comment the notion that the study should be designed to serve one purpose:  to influence the policy decision currently under debate ""To de-regulate or not.""  As such, I wouldn't see issues like ""PJM or APX"" or ""competitive default supplier or not,"" or ""divest generation with vesting contracts or retain the assets"" being the focus. That debate over critically important implementation details, would seem to come in ""Round 2,"" once the initial debate over ""deregulate or not"" is won. To try to do both, i.e., resolve in the broad policy issue AND make the case for the specific, ""right"" implementation plan, would arguably bog the study down, perhaps interminably.  And it seems that time is of the essence in the current environment.  In addition, unless the fundamental policy issue is won--and won rather quickly--debating  implementation may be moot.  Of course, it will be impossible to avoid some level of dicussion on ""how to do it,"" but that would not be the emphasis. In sum, I'd suggest for comment that it only makes sense to proceed---particularly since time is of the essence---if we focus on the high level policy level question of ""to deregulate or not,"" and address implementation in a second, or follow up, study.  I think we should try to make a call on this swiftly, since the ""go/no go"" decision would seem to flow from resolution of this issue. Best, Jeff James D Steffes 03/16/2001 08:22 AM 
choice Jeff -- It would be helpful to get some feedback prior to starting to deal with the fundamental question related to direct access for smaller customers.  I would like to know Teece's perspective on the role of government in this marketplace.  In addition, I think that the paper must deal with the drawbacks of having mixed roles - utility default supply and competitive markets. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/15/2001 03:11 PM 
choice Greetings: As I've mentioned, I've been discussing with a group of academics (principally from UC Berkeley) the possibility of producing an analysis of why it makes sense to move forward toward de-regulation, and makes no sense to turn back to command-and-control regulation.  Clearly, we're at a fork in the policy road---move forward, or go back. I've (finally) gotten a proposal from the group.  It's attached.  Please take a look.  I'd like to distribute more widely internally for comment, but wanted to run it through a preliminary screen to guage whether folks think it would be useful before cluttering up folks' in-boxes with more emails to read.  Few points worth mentioning: The majority of the academics that would do the report are affiliated with LECG, Inc., the consulting group that I worked with prior to joing Enron. List also includes Dan McFadden, UC Berkeley nobel prize winner who wrote the recent op-ed piece in the WSJ. The list also includes Hogan and Joskow  and Borenstein.  We could certainly exclude these folks should we choose to go forward with the analysis. However, the goal is to produce a high level analysis, i.e., ""de-regulation is good and can work; command and control regulation is bad and we know that it does not work.""  Once the study is released (if it is pursued), the ""authors"" could tour the country, testifying before federal and state bodies to advocate the virtues of de-regulation and the pitfalls of reversing course.  The analysis would not be a debate over ""To Poolco, or not to Poolco, PJM, etc.""  In this way, including folks like Joskow and Hogan could offer the added benefit of creating a ""Nixon goes to China"" scenario.  Please take a look at the list of participants.  Again, we can add to and subtract from the list. Laura Tyson would be one of the two project leaders. (The other would be David Teece, Chairman of LECG.) None of the folks on the list occupies either extreme of the political spectrum.  It's a mix of D's and R's who are arguably centrist economist and strong believers in markets (I won't vouch for Joskow and Hogan). The idea would be to get a wide array of industry participants from across the country to support the project.  This is for two reasons:  1) the more diverse the group supporting the effort, the greater the credibility, and 2) they are asking for about $1 million to do the study. If you think it would be useful to pursue the study as part of our national campaign to minimize the damage created by California, I would like to start immediately to approach trade associations, companies, customers, etc. nationwide to garner support for the project. Let me know if you think the effort would be worthwhile.  Appreciate your comments. Best, Jeff 
Mark Muller sends the attached for your information and comments. 
How about inserting the attached (after the explanation about the relationship between New Power and Enron)? Binky Davidson@EES 03/15/2001 05:35 PM 
Mark Muller sends the attached for your information and comments. 
The conversation was very positive (Glynn did not know anything about it at first, but, looked into it and called Ken back Friday evening).  Glynn said they were including the amount owed in their negotiations over the price for the transmission assets and said they intended to pay all of their debts, including this one, as soon as they get paid.  He said that this weekk would be focussed on finalizing a deal for SCE given the threat of bankruptcy; the discussions would then turn to PG&E. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/14/2001 07:03 PM 
Steve: Jim mentioned that Ken Lay was trying to talk to Glynn today about getting the PX credit issue resolved.  Any progress made? Best, Jeff 
Steve, Mark and Meredith, Please find below some emails between EFET (European Federation of Energy Traders) and myself.  We have helped them to find out which German journalists the German gas incumbent, Ruhrgas, has sent to California this week.  We found out about that yesterday.  I have now passed on that list + some general PR recommendations and EFET will now take the lead on this (they will send out an EFET position paper on California and have a spokesperson available especially for California - he's not Enron!). Just wanted to make sure you are aware because it could be possible that people will come to us for further comment.  The general consensus now is that we then refer them to EFET. Thanks Eva 
Jan, Please  see below a summary of the journalists who will be returning this weekend from their trip to California courtesy of Ruhrgas. Up to you now to send them the EFET position paper on California.  Would suggest you try to get it on their desk by Monday morning latest, if possible.  Would also send it to those who have refused to go and other key contacts we have given to you.  Media seems to be keen to know EFET's position on this.  Let me know if you need translation of the personalised note that will accompany the position paper. Obviously, we will divert any requests we get to you. Will get their email addresses to you later so you can email it to them rather than fax it with the possibility they will get it too late. Good luck. Groet Eva 
Eva, I've finished my guerilla-PR-job, here are the results: Ruhrgas has invited the Nordrhein-Westfalen (region where Essen is located) -based correspondents of the national dailies and also the energy journalists of the most important business magazines. Journalists in Califonia: -Werner Sturbeck (FAZ - Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung) -Werner Jaspert (S_ddeutsche Zeitung) -Dr. J_rgen Frech (WAZ - Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung -Jochen Schuster (Focus) Journalists that had been invited but refused: -Dr. Andreas Wildhagen (Wirtschaftswoche) -Hans-Willy Bein (Financial Times Deutschland) -Die Welt I also got the information that Ruhrgas held a press conference yesterday in California. So we can expect the first articles on California tomorrow or latest on Monday. I also will do an additional internet monitoring (for example WAZ, which we don't read daily) this afternoon to see if there are already some articles. We should recommend EFET to send their statement not only to those journalists who have been on the press trip but to all key contacts. Most of the journalists I spoke to or colleagues from the newsdesk seem to be keen to know what EFET has to say about the California issue!!!!! Please let me know if you need further information! Best regards, Christina M_ller Cohn & Wolfe Public Relations GmbH & Co. KG Kleyerstrasse 25, D-60326 Frankfurt am Main Telefon (069) 7506 1503, Telefax (069) 7506 1528 christina_mueller@de.cohnwolfe.com www.cohnwolfe.de 
He could have solved this problem in 20 minutes, right? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/25/2001 12:40 PM 
Thanks for the note.  I am forwarding it on to our analyst and associate recruiting program leaders.  We may have already filled the summer spots (we also cut  down the number  a bit this year to ensure a higher quality experience), but we will be out looking for a large number of permanent hires in the Fall. Severin Borenstein <borenste@Haas.Berkeley.EDU> 03/31/2001 06:00 PM 
Dear Steve: Jim Bushnell and I are teaching a course called ""Energy Market Strategies and Policies"" this semester.  The course is cross-listed between the Haas School of Business and the Energy & Resources Group at UC Berkeley.  The syllabus for the course is attached. We have 43 graduate students in the course, most pursuing a masters degree in business or energy & resources, though there are also a few PhD students.  These are very smart students -- many of whom already have experience in the energy industries -- and we believe the course puts them in a position to immediately contribute to any energy-related organization that they would join. Many of these students are interested in either summer or permanent employment starting as early as May.  If Enron has openings that you would like to advertise to these students, please send me the job description (or the URL for it)and I can forward it to the class list. Jim and I think this is a very strong class, and many of the students are interested in making a career in either the business or the public policy side of the energy industry.  We're hoping to provide the connections to help make sure they find the best job matches possible. Sincerely, Severin _________________________________________________________________ Severin Borenstein E.T. Grether Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy   Director Haas School of Business              U.C. Energy Institute University of California             2539 Channing Way Berkeley, CA 94720-1900              Berkeley, CA 94720-5180 (p) 510-642-3689                     (p) 510-642-5145 (f) 707-885-2508                     http://www.ucei.org Email: borenste@haas.berkeley.edu WWW: http://haas.berkeley.edu/~borenste - EnergyMarketsSyllabus.pdf 
I got a voicemail fro Ken.  He would be happy to meet with Freeman.  He is willing to work on other times, but suggested the following After 3:00 on May 2nd (right after Ken's speech to the RGA) or late the day before or in the morning of the second (to do this though he would have to cancel his speech to the Texas Governor's business council but he is willing to do this if necessary) His least preferred alternative in this general time frame would be early morning on the third. Jeff -- could you coordinate with Rosie to get the time and place nailed 
fyi. 
Ken wanted you to have a copy 
FYI.? The complete version of the following paper is available on my web pa= ge=20 at: www.whogan.com ????????ON THE EXERCISE OF MARKET POWER THROUGH STRATEGIC WITHHOLDING IN CALIFORNIA Scott Harvey and William W. Hogan April 24, 2001 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Beginning in June of 2000, the shock of unexpectedly high prices in the=20 California electricity market convinced everyone of the need for policies t= o=20 correct the apparent market failures.? The public debate and policy=20 discussions have been dominated by a focus on market power as a principal= =20 problem amenable to regulatory solution.? However, design of effective=20 policies to moderate prices or mitigate their effects depends on the=20 diagnosis of the underlying causes.? High prices attributable largely to an= =20 exercise of market power in electric generation would point to particular= =20 market participants and behaviors that could be targeted for regulatory=20 action.? By contrast, high prices attributable to bad electricity market=20 design would indicate a need for changes in the design.? High prices=20 attributable to higher fuel prices, environmental constraints and capacity= =20 shortages, on the other hand, would prompt actions to address the cost of= =20 fuel and environmental limitations and indicate that retail loads should=20 receive the appropriate price signal for conservation. Suppliers could affect market prices by strategically withholding some=20 capacity in order to profit on the capacity actually sold in the market.? B= ut=20 charging high prices during periods of scarcity is not classified as=20 exercising market power if there is no strategic withholding of supply.?=20 Likewise, refusing to supply without being paid is not an exercise of marke= t=20 power.? Although the potential for withholding exists for many suppliers, t= he=20 focus of attention has been on the exercise of market power by thermal=20 generators in California. On its face, the experience of extremely high prices suggests that the=20 exercise of market power could be important.? But at the same time the data= =20 show that there have been profound changes in the California market such th= at=20 the thermal generators have actually increased their production more than= =20 demand has grown.? If anything, thermal generators that hit annual output= =20 limits produced too much rather than too little in the summer of 2000.?=20 Furthermore, the widespread impacts of higher electricity prices throughout= =20 the western market, both on and off peak,? indicate that if the exercise of= =20 market power is important it is occurring to an extent and through channels= =20 unprecedented in this or other electricity markets.? In short, this is a=20 complicated story, and there is ample room for further investigation of the= =20 data and diagnosis of causes. Examination of the major analyses of the exercise of market power reveals= =20 that the estimated magnitude of the possible strategic withholding of=20 electric generation is small enough to make it important to verify the=20 simplifying assumptions.? If strategic withholding were large and pervasive= ,=20 then the real details of the California electricity market could be ignored= .?=20 But it is by now apparent that the evidence is not clear, and any finding o= f=20 the presence or absence of strategic withholding of generation in the=20 California electricity market could turn on the simplifying assumptions use= d=20 in the analysis of the data.? For example, annual limits on production=20 dictate that plants should not run in many hours when prices are higher tha= n=20 direct incremental costs; hence, examinations of output decisions for=20 individual hours or months are necessarily incomplete.? The variation in re= al=20 time conditions is large enough to produce significant reductions in output= =20 compared to the expectations given day-ahead prices; hence, with capacity= =20 constraints average optimal production is necessarily less than optimal=20 production at average prices.? Limits on the ramping rate of generation=20 units, start-up costs, minimum load costs and other operational=20 inflexibilities imply that a dispatch day is not just twenty-four separate= =20 hours and must be analyzed chronologically, recognizing these factors.? And= =20 so on.? Accounting for such effects can reverse the implications of the=20 previous evidence.? Unfortunately, the real details are neither simple nor= =20 incidental. It is difficult to conduct a study of market power based solely on publicly= =20 available data.? A fuller analysis would require data available only to the= =20 California Independent System Operator, and has not been done.? Many factor= s=20 contributed to higher electricity prices in California, and the market powe= r=20 theme is only, at most, part of the story.? The import of the previous=20 analyses is not to prove that market power has been exercised in the=20 California electricity market but, rather, to suggest that it might be=20 important.? The import of the sensitivity analysis here is not to prove tha= t=20 market power has not been exercised in the electricity market? but, rather,= =20 to suggest that it is unlikely to be the dominant factor and may not even b= e=20 significant.? With the available data in the public domain, and the special= =20 complications introduced by the California market design, the margin of err= or=20 in estimating the extent of the possible exercise of market power through= =20 strategic withholding of electric generation is of the same order of=20 magnitude as the effect being measured.? On balance, to date the publicly= =20 available data provides no reason for the Federal Energy Regulatory=20 Commission to change its conclusion that there is no evidence of strategic= =20 withholding nor any proof that no strategic withholding has occurred. By contrast, there is general agreement that the California electricity=20 market design is =01&seriously flawed.=018? Furthermore, there is evidence = that the=20 policy responses that have been adopted in California have accelerated an= =20 already serious market collapse.? Hence, without dismissing the possibility= =20 of the exercise of market power, the principal policy focus should be on=20 fashioning workable solutions for the other more serious problems in market= =20 design that relate to the underlying causes of the market meltdown. Separate from market power mitigation, California should pay its bills, rai= se=20 incremental prices to retail customers, and move as quickly as possible to= =20 operating a coordinated and efficient market with consistent pricing for al= l=20 that includes unit commitment, day-ahead scheduling, and real-time=20 balancing.? Although not a panacea, these steps would address immediate=20 problems and set the stage for longer-term initiatives to expand generation= =20 capacity, transmission infrastructure, and the reach of an efficient market= =20 to the western interconnected grid. William W. Hogan John F. Kennedy School of Government Harvard University 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1317 (o) 617-495-1635 (f) william_hogan@harvard.edu web page: www.whogan.com or http://ksgwww.harvard.edu/people/whogan 
I think we should let people in the legislature know about this and see if one or more of them can get their hands on it. 
I think the meeting is on Wednesday, but if you can be there (Sacremento, I expect) you should.  As I mentioned in my voicemail, I think the meeting will not be particularly substantive;  more likely it is a photo op for the governor to show how tough he is on the pirate generators.  Based on your message below, should we still plan to send somebody?  I still think we should if we can manage the legal risk. Mike:  would you be able to attend as well? 
California State University System 
Ken Lay spoke with several California CEOs this morning and urged them to get personally involved in pushing for a comprehensive set of reforms.  Three expressed willingness to help. Scott McNealy (Sun):  contact person - Piper Cole (piper.cole@sun.com); scott.mcnealy@engeng.sun.com.  Mcnealy wants, by close of business today, a ""cheat sheet"" of the talking points to use with politicians (the ""8 or 10 elements of the solution"") with the expected comeback he may hear from the political leaders and our response to that comeback.  He says he hasn't spent time working on issues in Sacremento so we may also want to include a list of suggested contacts. Kevin Sharer (Amgen): contact person - Sarah Jensen, VP of Engineering and Operations (805.447.6785); ksharer@amgen.com.  Sharer wants the same information as McNealy and he and McNealy both indicated their willingness to call a meeting of other California CEOs.  Sharer will also be having breakfast with Hertzberg one week from today. Robert Day (Trust Co of the West):  said that he is very close to the mayor of Los Angeles.  He urged Ken to call the mayor (mentioning Day).  Ken would like some talking points for that call. 
Please send any comments directly to Peggy. 
Attached is the first Q&A draft.  Please review, add questions, edit, etc. This will be used as a guide for media and government affairs responses. Evan/Diann - It needs to be tailored for use as a customer service script. There are some blanks we could use your help on - noted in blue. Max Eberts at 58804 and Beth Tilney at 35022 will be the contacts for edits via email or by phone.  I will call-in when I arrive in Washington at about 1:30pm. Thanks Peggy 
I'm still waiting for Davis' office to call.  The plan currently is for me to talk to him when and if he calls.  Sandi has been in touch with the governor's office. By the way, thanks for the summary of the California proceedings.  I talked to Hebert yesterday and he was duly impressed with your remarks ... I had to remind him that you worked on the right answers for California, not the abomination that's in place today. Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/13/2000 06:48 PM 
Preempt me, please! Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/13/2000 06:22 PM 
GOVERNOR DAVIS PRESSES FERC FOR ACTION ON WHOLESALE POWER RATES: Calls on Federal Regulators to Reduce Prices, Issue Refunds GOVERNOR DAVIS NAMES KAHN CHAIR OF THE GOVERNOR'S CLEAN ENERGY GREEN TEAM OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- PR00:238 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 12, 2000 GOVERNOR DAVIS PRESSES FERC FOR ACTION ON WHOLESALE POWER RATES Calls on Federal Regulators to Reduce Prices, Issue Refunds SAN DIEGO - At a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) hearing today in San Diego, Governor Gray Davis reiterated his call to federal regulators to intervene ""to the fullest extent possible"" to lower electricity prices in California. ""FERC bears responsibility to ensure that a workably competitive market exists before California consumers and California's economy are subjected to unconstrained, market-based electricity prices,"" said Governor Davis in a statement read by Energy Oversight Board Chairman Michael Kahn. ""Consequently, I renew my prior request that the Commission act with utmost speed to intervene to the fullest extent possible to restore wholesale prices to fair levels and to remedy harms that have resulted from the 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
I talked to Hettie today.  It's unlikely that we are going to find time for Jeff and the Governor to talk (because of the Governor's schedule).  We'll try to set something up later.  In the meantime, the Governor should just sign the bill.  Of course, Hettie had already communicated this; the Gov's office acknowledged that the message was recieved but did not make a specific 
Looks good.  I think you implicitly say this, but I think you should make it more explicit: The continued growth of the new economy is threatened by our electricity infrastructure more than anything else. The high tech industry requires market driven solutions to reliability and pricing not the old style command and control regulated monopoly approach. Let's start getting the word out! Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 09/26/2000 02:06 PM 
Attached is a first rough cut.  Work continues but wanted to distribute for feedback.  All is welcome and appreciated. 
Eliz -- I need your group to put together a search which captures the comments of PG&E and Edison officials in trade press, anlyst reports, and speeches which would be inconsistent with the idea that they can now recover their shortfall.  In other words, when they were trying to get AB 1890 passed, when they were fighting Proposition 9, when they floated their ""rate reduction bonds"" and when they talked to analysts and rating agencies I'm sure they assumed that they would live under the rate freeze and take the risk of stranded cost recovery whithin the statutory deadline. 
CC list suppressed... September 27, 2000 California Utilities' LossesOn Electricity Pose Risk By REBECCA SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL California's two biggest utilities are losing so much money buying electricity in the state's deregulated market that they have run up deficits equivalent to half their net worth in just four months. If the cost of wholesale power continues to exceed the price these utilities are allowed to bill their customers, as currently seems likely, they could become technically insolvent sometime next year. That would put pressure on regulators to orchestrate a multibillion-dollar public bailout, similar to the ""too big to fail'' response that in the past pushed governments to rescue banks. Such a scenario is quietly being discussed by bond-rating concerns that recently reduced their credit outlooks for Pacific Gas & Electric Co., a unit of San Francisco-based PG&E Corp., and Southern California Edison, a unit of Edison International of Rosemead, Calif. Bond- rating concerns say they aren't sure how much additional debt can be borne by the two affected utilities before they will have difficulty paying their bills. Probe of California Power Prices Begins, but New Plants Aren't Seen as Solution (Sept. 11) Los Angeles Utility Is Benefitting, Surprisingly, From Deregulation (Sept. 6) California Lawmakers Vote to Limit Electricity Costs (Sept. 1) ""If this is just a seasonal aberration, the utilities can get through it,"" says Lori Woodland, analyst for Fitch IBCA. ""If it goes on for six or nine months, it's a very serious situation."" Adds A.J. Sabatelle, senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service Inc.: ""At some 
sooner 
Thanks..... what's a BEEP? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/02/2000 05:53 PM 
I think the presentation looks good.  In the meeting itself I think you should go heavy on the argument that it makes no sense for Sempra shareholders to be in a commodity market as a regulated entity -- the ""heads they win tails you lose"" argument. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/13/2000 06:11 PM 
Attached for your review is a rough cut at slides we're preparing for the meeting with Sempra next Thursday.  Thoughts and comments are appreciated. Please disregard korny title. 
Ken left a msg for me on Sunday.  He was able to return Bryson's call.  Not much new: Ken got Jeff's paper will try to reach Hertzberg on Monday. Bryson gave an update (very consistent with yours on Fri) Wants us to think creatively about ""how to keep DWR contracts from preventing the comprehensive solution"" and how to address the concerns of the state treasurer. 
fyi 
I know we are holding for a later filing, but I have attached further comments anyway.  The document is still too rough to send out.  We need to take the opportunity, as soon as possible, to get a hard hitting, thoroughly researched and carefully written document in front of the Commissioners. California's reaction to the Judge's recommendation is likely to give FERC (especially the new commissioners) a feel for how irrational the California politicians can be.  We will have a limited opportunity to take advantage of that realization.  We need to hit it hard in the pleading, our conversations at the Commission, the Hill and the media. Linda Robertson 07/09/2001 09:58 AM 
Let me emphasize that these comments are to be filed COB TODAY. James D Steffes 07/09/2001 10:50 AM 
HERE IS THE MOST RECENT STATEMENT WITH STEVE'S COMMENTS. Jim 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
My comments are attached.  I think the pleading is well written, but, as you'll see from my comments, I believe we should be incorporating more of the arguments from the previous pleading. Ray Alvarez 07/09/2001 07:14 PM 
As you may be aware, the Chief Judge informed the parties to the settlement proceeding this afternoon that he intends to recommend to the Commission that it employ the June 19 rate methodology for the refund period from October 2 forward. Attached are draft comments that Sarah Novosel and I propose to submit to the Judge and his legal staff tomorrow.  While we would like to convince the Judge that the June 19 methodology is not appropriate, we also provide a fallback approach. Please review the comments (they are only 4 pages) and send your comments to us.  We plan to submit the comments tomorrow. Thanks Ray and Sarah 
Bonnie:  Please forward to Michael Kirby. I think the draft looks good.  Could you also prepare a draft of the letter we discussed yesterday to convey the proposal to the committee? ""Bonnie Hugyez"" <blh@pkns.com> on 07/17/2001 12:34:20 AM 
Attached is a draft Nonwaiver Agreement per our telephone conferences of yesterday after the meetings with Senator Dunn.  I am available in my office for a conference call to discuss this. The information contained in this e-mail message and any accompanying documents is subject to the attorney-client privilege and/or the attorney work product rule and is confidential business information intended only for the use of the individual or entity named above.  If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient or representative of the recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination of this communication is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this communication in error, please notify Kathryn A. Pugh at kpugh@pkns.com and immediately delete this message from your system. - 289271_1.WPD 
These are useful updates.  Please include Whalley, Lavorato, Parquet, Dietrich, Delainey, Kitchens, Haedicke, Sanders, Kirby, Sharp, Leff, Calger, Belden etc on future updates.  Thanks 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. 
Attached is the presentation I used for a very general update on deregulation; it includes some California material. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. Thanks. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. Thanks. 
Just FYI.  These guys did a great job on the polling here, but I can't speak to their other qualifications or their California ties. 
1. Thank you for all your support on the Arena Proposition. 2. The following article reminded me to pass along a note about a PR/PA firm in California who Baselice & Associates worked with this year in passing Prop 35 (a contracting out initiative).  The firm is a full service firm named Woodward & McDowell.  They have been active in California legislative and initiative battles for some 20 years and I highly recommend them if Enron is in search of support with the electric deregulation fight out there.  Dick Woodward or Dave Fogarty can be reached at 650-340-0470. If you have any questions, please call. Mike MICHAEL BASELICE Baselice & Associates, Inc. 4131 Spicewood Springs Road Suite O-2 Austin, TX  78759 Phone: (512) 345-9720 Fax: (512) 345-9740 email: mikeb@baselice.com November 8, 2000 Calif Regulators,Grid Oper In Turf War Over Generation By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES-California's electricity regulators and power-grid operator are locked in a turf war over who has the authority to order new power plant construction next summer to ensure the state has enough juice on hand when demand soars. The California Public Utilities Commission says it can bring emergency power on line at a fraction of the cost that the Independent System Operator is expected to pay independent power producers for the same service. Under it's plan, PG&E Corp. (PCG) unit Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Edison International's (EIX) Southern California Edison unit and Sempra Energy's (SRE) San Diego Gas & Electric Co. were ordered to submit documents by the end of November stating whether they can build and operate ""peaking"" plants by June 1. The utilities weren't immediately available to comment. On the other hand, the ISO - which is on the verge of signing contracts for 440 peaking units with between 20 and 91 megawatts of electricity - says the commission's meddling could endanger any chance of additional resources coming on line in time. ""Any further interference on the state level could destroy the plan altogether,"" said an ISO source close to the issue. ""There is no guarantee the utilities will be able to pull this off by next summer. And if the 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Has anyone talked with Tim B about what Larcamp said -- ie the soft cap only applies to PX and ISO bids and not to any bilateral contracts including bilateral fwd contracts? 
Just to pile on with the issues, I will add a few thoughts of my own for issues that we might want to consider in our November 20 comments. Re: the application of the price cap to only PX and ISO, Commissioner Massey is not totally on board.  He specifically asked about capping the forward market.  He raised the idea that he had gotten from the San Diego hearing that there be an accepted forward contract for a specified timeframe (18-24 months) and specified rate, and that all loads must buy a minimum percentage of their needs from this contract. A staffer (Don Gelinas) asked whether the forward/bilateral market (presumably uncapped) could take care of investment recovery so that generation not be cancelled in California. Dynegy and other marketers raised the issue of the test to be used by the Commission in reviewing transactions above the soft cap.  Specifically, what is opportunity cost?  As long as the test is not known until after the fact, there will be lack of secuity selling into the California and greater incentive to sell elsewhere. Hobbs from Williams raised the possibility that if the Commission does not eliminate the soft cap (his preferred approach), that the cap should be temporary and escalating and there should be limited time for raising issues and retaining the refund liability (he suggested that the refund liability be only for one month). Many, especially the utilities, raised their position that the Commission should not institute penalties only on the load.  They claimed this was one-sided and suggested if penalties were required, they needed to be applied to the supply side as well.  They also argued that the load could not meet the 5% test. Massey had a concern at the end of the day that the Commission's encouragement of forward contracts will be stymied by the CPUC by their authority in reviewing prudence of the utilities' purchases. Larcamp asked at the end of the day for information on the cost of generation before deregulation - normalized for gas prices and emmission prices of today.  The marketer on the panel added that we would need to include stranded costs. There was almost no support for the single price auction in California. The California politicians argued that the ISO Board structure needed to be changed, but that California had jurisdiction to change it, not FERC.  A Court battle was threatened. Steven J Kean 11/13/2000 08:51 AM 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Has anyone talked with Tim B about what Larcamp said -- ie the soft cap only applies to PX and ISO bids and not to any bilateral contracts including bilateral fwd contracts? 
Just to pile on with the issues, I will add a few thoughts of my own for issues that we might want to consider in our November 20 comments. Re: the application of the price cap to only PX and ISO, Commissioner Massey is not totally on board.  He specifically asked about capping the forward market.  He raised the idea that he had gotten from the San Diego hearing that there be an accepted forward contract for a specified timeframe (18-24 months) and specified rate, and that all loads must buy a minimum percentage of their needs from this contract. A staffer (Don Gelinas) asked whether the forward/bilateral market (presumably uncapped) could take care of investment recovery so that generation not be cancelled in California. Dynegy and other marketers raised the issue of the test to be used by the Commission in reviewing transactions above the soft cap.  Specifically, what is opportunity cost?  As long as the test is not known until after the fact, there will be lack of secuity selling into the California and greater incentive to sell elsewhere. Hobbs from Williams raised the possibility that if the Commission does not eliminate the soft cap (his preferred approach), that the cap should be temporary and escalating and there should be limited time for raising issues and retaining the refund liability (he suggested that the refund liability be only for one month). Many, especially the utilities, raised their position that the Commission should not institute penalties only on the load.  They claimed this was one-sided and suggested if penalties were required, they needed to be applied to the supply side as well.  They also argued that the load could not meet the 5% test. Massey had a concern at the end of the day that the Commission's encouragement of forward contracts will be stymied by the CPUC by their authority in reviewing prudence of the utilities' purchases. Larcamp asked at the end of the day for information on the cost of generation before deregulation - normalized for gas prices and emmission prices of today.  The marketer on the panel added that we would need to include stranded costs. There was almost no support for the single price auction in California. The California politicians argued that the ISO Board structure needed to be changed, but that California had jurisdiction to change it, not FERC.  A Court battle was threatened. Steven J Kean 11/13/2000 08:51 AM 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Has anyone talked with Tim B about what Larcamp said -- ie the soft cap only applies to PX and ISO bids and not to any bilateral contracts including bilateral fwd contracts? 
Just to pile on with the issues, I will add a few thoughts of my own for issues that we might want to consider in our November 20 comments. Re: the application of the price cap to only PX and ISO, Commissioner Massey is not totally on board.  He specifically asked about capping the forward market.  He raised the idea that he had gotten from the San Diego hearing that there be an accepted forward contract for a specified timeframe (18-24 months) and specified rate, and that all loads must buy a minimum percentage of their needs from this contract. A staffer (Don Gelinas) asked whether the forward/bilateral market (presumably uncapped) could take care of investment recovery so that generation not be cancelled in California. Dynegy and other marketers raised the issue of the test to be used by the Commission in reviewing transactions above the soft cap.  Specifically, what is opportunity cost?  As long as the test is not known until after the fact, there will be lack of secuity selling into the California and greater incentive to sell elsewhere. Hobbs from Williams raised the possibility that if the Commission does not eliminate the soft cap (his preferred approach), that the cap should be temporary and escalating and there should be limited time for raising issues and retaining the refund liability (he suggested that the refund liability be only for one month). Many, especially the utilities, raised their position that the Commission should not institute penalties only on the load.  They claimed this was one-sided and suggested if penalties were required, they needed to be applied to the supply side as well.  They also argued that the load could not meet the 5% test. Massey had a concern at the end of the day that the Commission's encouragement of forward contracts will be stymied by the CPUC by their authority in reviewing prudence of the utilities' purchases. Larcamp asked at the end of the day for information on the cost of generation before deregulation - normalized for gas prices and emmission prices of today.  The marketer on the panel added that we would need to include stranded costs. There was almost no support for the single price auction in California. The California politicians argued that the ISO Board structure needed to be changed, but that California had jurisdiction to change it, not FERC.  A Court battle was threatened. Steven J Kean 11/13/2000 08:51 AM 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Another key point:  to avoid the mistakes of California, policy makers must make it easy to site and interconnect new generation.  In California peak demand rose by about 5500 MW from 1996 - 2000.  The market responded with porposed capacity additions of about 11000 MW.  Most of these facilities are working thier way through the tangle of state and local approvals.  The problems we saw in California did not need to occur if policy makers simply enabled the market to work.  Also, it's worth noting that the deregulated market did work.  Customers who signed with Enron saw a lower bill than prederegulation, Enron hedged its commitments and so our customers (and Enron) did just fine during the summer.  Deregulation worked; the problems in California can be directly traced to continued regulatory interference in the market. Susan J Mara 11/17/2000 06:09 PM 
Mark, Here's my shot.  I did it in Revision mode so you can see the changes.  Note that Enron never got out of the retail market in CA and has gathered about 1,000 MW of retail load -- we're bigger than all but two of the municipal utilities in the state.  Enron stopped marketing to residential consumers -- that's what all the  fuss was about in 1997.  Anyone else feel free to take your own shot. Sue Mark Schroeder@ECT 11/17/2000 09:52 AM 
Some of our people get asked on the phone about what is going on in California.  I have drafted the attached paper for their use.  It is intended to be simple and user-friendly.  Your thoughts on whether I achieved that objectvie are welcome.  More importantly, I need you to confimr that I got the story and facts correct, and that I have not said anything about the situation that you (Enron USA) would not want to say, or have not said, or if we have said something fundamentally different, I need to know that, too. thanks for taking the time to review.  mcs 
It's worth noting too (perhaps as part of Jeff's first or second points) that in addition to chasing existing power supplies out of the state, price caps, and the uncertainty surrounding them, chase new generation away.  The turbine market is a worldwide market.  Firms will have difficulty committing their own capital (and borrowing from others) if they propose to put facilities in jurisdisctions where rates are capped or pricing is based on something other than the operation of the market.  Several generators, including Dynegy and Calpine, have said they will look for other homes for the turbines they have ordered. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 11/17/2000 02:44 PM 
Rob: Here's a quick and dirty list of some lessons from California that Alberta may not want to repeat.  Steve, let me know if I've missed any messages we're using to describe California's woes (or mangled any, for that matter.  If you have any questions, don't hestitate to get in touch. Best, Jeff 
Jeff Dasovich and I, along with several IEP members, met with Gov Davis'=20 staff today, including his Chief of Staff, his Staff Director and two polic= y=20 advisors on energy issues.  They made the following points: The Governor is personally spending a great deal of time on electricity=20 issues (and is forcing them to spend their time on it as well). The Governor recognizes that part of the problem is a supply shortage, but= =20 they put special emphasis on the view that in addition to supply shortfalls= ,=20 a big part of the problem is a ""dysfunctional market"" -- a thinly veiled=20 reference to price manipulation by people sitting in the room. The Governor's view is that all participants (regulators, utilities,=20 customers and generators) must ""behave responsibly"". Everyone must ""share the pain"". The legislative battles are likely to start as soon as the legislature=20 returns next week, and the Governor will be putting forth several legislati= ve=20 proposals in the next couple of weeks. While staff went out of its way to say that the list of proposals (in the= =20 attached e-mail) were unofficial and for discussion purposes only, it was= =20 fairly clear that they defined much of what the governor plans to propose. The meeting was not very encouraging nor did it provide much in the way of= =20 new information.  The IEP group was on message, making the usual arguments= =20 about the need for forward contracting, expedited generation and transmissi= on=20 siting, a real retail market to promote demand side responses, etc.  The=20 staff is clearly focussed on forward contracting as part of the solution bu= t=20 remains committed to the idea that generators have to cough up some money a= nd=20 remain subject to rate caps, possible restrictions on sales outside the sta= te=20 (at least at peak times), etc.  One approach they appear to be toying with = is=20 a ""share the pain"" proposal which would have utilities absorbing some of th= e=20 deferred costs and consumers absorbing some of the deferred costs in the fo= rm=20 of higher rates.  That leaves generators ... who they might want to either= =20 agree to some refunds or provide power at lower going-forward prices. The staff says that they remain open to proposed solutions, but the Davis= =20 administration appears unwilling to spend any political capital to fix the= =20 problem. =20 I think we are in for a lengthy legislative and PUC fight.  We should, as= =20 always, provide consistent and reasonable solutions.  I think we should=20 prepare a document for distribution to staff, legislators (and anyone else)= =20 that takes the factual background and proposed solutions we have put forwar= d=20 (eg in Belden's presentation and the Seabron Adamson whitepaper) and wraps= =20 them in a more political context.  In other words, we have already=20 articulated the right answers; we now need to put a political rationale=20 around our proposals -- a set of arguments which responds directly to the= =20 political opposition those answers are likely to encounter.  Jeff will foll= ow=20 up with one of the staff members in particular (Kari Dohn) and I would=20 suggest that Jeff and Sandi work together on putting the necessary politica= l=20 rhetoric around the solutions we have proposed. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 11/22/2000 04:00 PM =20 
Steve:  FYI.  Don't worry about the conference call, but thought it might b= e=20 useful to review the proposals prior to Monday's meeting. See you Monday. Happy Thanksgiving to all. Best, Jeff ***************************************************************************= *** ************************************** Several IEP companies have been invited to a meeting with the Governor=01,s= =20 staff next Monday, November 27th. The following are some options, which the Governor=01,s office is consideri= ng. =20 IEP is doing some preliminary research on some of these topics.  IEP would= =20 like to arrange a teleconference call around noon on Monday, November 27th = to=20 discuss the Governor=01,s meeting.  Please advise us as to whether your hav= e=20 been invited, and who you are sending. California=01,s electricity supply situation has two inter-related problems= =01)=20 (1) high wholesale electricity costs, and (2) marginally adequate supply of= =20 generation =01) both have combined to create a dysfunctional wholesale=20 electricity market.  The goals should be: To assure reliable electricity to California consumers for the lowest=20 reasonable cost. o Consider requiring that all in-state generation be sold in state. o Consider re-asserting state authority over the operation, maintenance and= =20 safety practices of all in-state generating facilities=01, for public healt= h and=20 safety purposes. o Consider developing a state power authority to build generation and=20 own/operate transmission. o Consider requiring utilities both to retain existing and to build new=20 generation. o Consider providing utilities with authority to stabilize retail prices to= =20 be paid by consumers through development of an energy portfolio that reduce= s=20 exposure to spot markets, including contracting forward for much more of=20 their unmet power needs. o Consider extending consumer rate freeze. o Consider centralizing power plant dispatch like the other ISOs in the res= t=20 of the country. o Consider eliminating the ISO and assigning its functions to either a stat= e=20 or private entity that can acquire the transmission facilities, and control= =20 the electricity transmission grid (MUNIs have proposed this). o Consider sponsoring/supporting legislation to change the ISO and PX board= s=20 to increase accountability. o Expand energy conservation programs focused both on immediate peak demand= =20 reduction and on longer term, broader-based programs. o Aggressively work to site new generation and transmission facilities, to= =20 streamline permitting, and to develop renewable resources. o Call for/sponsor federal FERC reform legislation that would: o Impose a regional price cap that varies by time of day and year; o Set requirements for FERC to use its retroactive refund authority; o Improve FERC enforcement over price gouging practices; o Affirm the role of states to protect their customers from unjust prices. o Pressure the FERC to do its job to (1) bring about responsible seller=20 behavior in wholesale electric markets through price controls and other=20 market interventions as necessary, and (2) provide refunds to affected=20 consumers. 
Jeff Dasovich and Steve Kean are attending.  Someone can be on a call -- me= =20 if no one else -- if Jeff and Steve are travelling at the time. Hey, does t= he=20 Governor have to fly coach? ""CHUDSON"" <carol@iepa.com> 11/22/2000 12:47 PM =20 
Jan Smutny-Jones, Exec Dir Independent Energy Producers Assn. 1112 I Street, Suite 380 Sacramento, CA 95814 PH: 916-448-9499 FX: 916-448-0182 iepa@iepa.com - Govs meeting Conf Call.doc 
Proposed edits attached.  Looks good -- I like the references to the energy savings... I think we should try to get this story some play in california; not necessarily in the media but perhaps with some of the folks we are working with in the Gov's office.  Please copy Dasovich and Mccubbin on the final. Extra congratulations on the USA Today story. Peggy Mahoney@EES 11/27/2000 09:39 PM 
The Macerich Company has agreed to distribute the attached news release about our recent energy management agreement.  Although it was a third quarter agreement, I'd really like to have this ""officially"" on the record.  Please review the attached draft and let me know your thoughts by end of day Tuesday, November 28. x57034. Thanks Peggy 
Given the way the numbers came out, I guess we don't need the talking points, but we should still try to get to the bottom of this because we will be called on to comment to regulators and media.  Unless we have strong evidence to the contrary, it seems to me that wholesale markets are working .... they are open and they are competitive.  On the other hand, retail gas markets suffer from the same problems as electric markets ... they are not open, customers don't have effective choices and price signals don't get through, so there is no demand response when prices rise. On the points raised in the attachment, I'm still not sure I follow point 4. Also what does"" electric disconnect"" mean? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 12/12/2000 02:40 PM 
Leslie:  Looks good.  Just a couple of comments: 1. General May want to point out that the roots of California's current gas woes are the same ones causing the electric problem---combined effect of California's ""import-based"" energy policy and the state's failure to invest in in-state infrastructure.  California imports about 25% of its electricity, but about 80-90 percent of its gas supply.  California has failed to invest in the in-state infrastructure necessary to support increased gas demand over the last decade.  So we've got an interstate pipeline superhighway to the border and a dirt road of in-state transportation once you get into California. The last bullet seems to suggest that manipulation may be taking place.  Can we support that suggestion, and is it one that we want to make necessarily? If we do suggest that manipulation may in part explain current prices, do we need to propose ways to eliminate it?  Otherwise, seems that we may be giving FERC ammunition to take action without trying to ""steer"" that action in the right direction.  Maybe I'm reading too much into the bullet. 2. Specific Competition for gas coming to California has increased significantly.  The midwest (via Alliance) is competing away Canadian gas.  The Southwest (Nevada, Arizona) is competing away supply from the Southwest before it hits the California border. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 11:58 AM 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
Heads up.  This is not to be discussed in advance out side of Enron, but you guys need to know.  If there are ways we can be helpful, call Carolyn Green to discuss. 
This will touch off a firestorm.  Diane is doing a good job, retaining McNally Temple in CA and even getting some message development help from our old friends at Public Strategies in Austin.  I'll stay on top of it. 
Attached is the proposed press release, which includes input from Rebecca, Cole and Neil.  We are tentatively planning to issue the release Monday , October 11, but in case word leaks to the media from Cole's meetings with local landowners starting tomorrow, we may need to issue this week.  With that in mind, would you please provide me any comments on the attached document by the end of the day tomorrow, October 6. Please note that this project has received tremendous local resistance to date, so we are quoting Cole and adding much more information about the local benefits to try to address these issues.  We are drafting a Q&A document and key message points for use with local and national media and the investor audience. Sent by: Maureen McVicker@ENRON 
I believe we need to prepare a letter to key decision makers regarding=20 western energy markets and the actions that we believe should and should no= t=20 be taken by policy makers.  I=01,ve recently spoken to rep from DOE, the ca= l=20 senators=01, offices and FERC and am concerned that they continue to labor = under=20 misconceptions about how the market is operating and what policy decisions= =20 make sense.  I have conveyed Enron=01,s point of view to each of these=20 representatives.  Several have asked for a letter and I believe it would be= =20 helpful to capture some of our views in writing. =20 Here are the key points I believe we need to make: ? we have a serious crisis in the energy markets in the western United Stat= es. ? some of the policy reactions to this crisis have been helpful but many ha= ve=20 been harmful ? every action the govt. takes in the crisis situation should be (1) inform= ed=20 by discussions with market participants (and not simply taken on faith from= =20 the utilities or the CAL ISO), (2) should be measured against this simple= =20 standard: does the action actually increase supply or actually decrease=20 demand; if not, then it=01,s not helping. ? we should list examples of both the short term and long term remedies tha= t=20 we believe satisfy this standard (e.g. in the short term things like having= =20 the ISO buy demand reductions, providing government guarantees for ISO=20 purchases or having California lift emissions limits) and listing actions= =20 that do not meet this standard (e.g. price caps orders to sell power to the= =20 CAL ISO). ? list the actions that we have taken to increase supply or reduce demand. ? make ourselves available to discuss any of these matters. I think we need to try to get such a letter prepared by the end of the day= =20 today. =20 I am sending you a copy of the letter we sent to the commission regarding= =20 price caps and a letter El Paso sent regarding gas markets yesterday.  I am= =20 asking Paul Kaufman to take the lead on pulling this together or to designa= te=20 someone to pull a draft together. 
The Governor cancelled the meeting at the last minute.  Apparently, he was trying to schedule a meeting with Clinton and our meeting conflicted, so we were bumped.  We are trying to set a new time.  I will share with the Governor's energy advisor the information and recommendations all of you 
27th/28th 
This is very good work.  You make all the points we need to make without spraining anything in the process.  You have been doing a superb job under very difficult circumstances. On another note:  I don't know if you received my page, but the meeting with Davis was cancelled so I flew back to Houston.  We are trying to get another time, perhaps as early as this week.  Davis did meet with Greenspan and Summers, both of whom we had briefed extensively. 
27th/28th You're right, Sue.  Rates can't go up w/out declaring the rate freeze over in some fashion---trying to finesse it.  Thanks very much for the comments. Harry also had a good comment---don't specify the amount of rate increase in our comments; rather note that the rate increase needs to be well-reasoned and based on facts and evidence.  Will make that change. Susan J Mara 12/26/2000 06:43 PM 
27th/28th Jeff, This looks good.  It comes across as moderate in tone-- although probably no one else will ask to leave the rate freeze in place. I have a legal question -- Under AB 1890, I don't see anyway that the CPUC can raise rates without ending the rate freeze first.  Am I missing something? So, how is it clear that the CCPUC can raise the rates on Feb 1? It's clear,however,  that once the retained assets are valued that the rates can be changed. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 12/26/2000 01:15 PM 
Attached is a draft of the talking points for the Commission's hearings.  Few points: Our time is likely to be limited to 5-10 minutes. Mike Day, our outside counsel, will make the presentation on our behalf. Mike Day is fleshing out the legal details of our presentation and he will forward that along for folks review later today. Comments can be forwarded to me via email, pager (888.916.7184), voicemail (415.782.7822), or home (415.621.8317). We will finalize the message points on tomorrow's daily call (10 AM CST). The call in number is 800.713.8600.  Code is 80435. The Commission's hearings begin tomorrow at 10 AM (PST). 
We are now scheduled to meet with the gov. tomorrow in LA at 3:00.  I'll let 
comments/suggestions 
We met with Gov Davis on Thursday evening in LA.  In attendance were Ken Lay, the Governor, the Governor's staff director (Kari Dohn) and myself.  The gov. spent over an hour and a half with us covering our suggestions and his ideas.  He would like some additional thoughts from us by Tuesday of next week as he prepares his state of the state address for the following Monday. Attached to the end of this memo is a list of solutions we proposed (based on my discussions with several of you) as well as some background materials Jeff Dasovich and I prepared.  Below are my notes from the meeting regarding our proposals, the governor's ideas, as well as my overview of the situation based on the governor's comments: Overview:   We made great progress in both ensuring that he understands that we are different from the generators and in opening a channel for ongoing communication with his administration. The gov does not want the utilities to go bankrupt and seems predisposed to both rate relief (more modest than what the utilities are looking for) and credit guarantees.  His staff has more work to do on the latter, but he was clearly intrigued with the idea.  He talked mainly in terms of raising rates but not uncapping them at the retail level.  He also wants to use what generation he has control over for the benefit of California consumers, including utility-owned generation (which he would dedicate to consumers on a cost-plus basis) and excess muni power (which he estimates at 3000MW).  He foresees a mix of market oriented solutions as well as interventionist solutions which will allow him to fix the problem by '02 and provide some political cover. Our proposals:  I have attached the outline we put in front of him (it also included the forward price information several of you provided).  He seemed interested in 1) the buy down of significant demand, 2) the state setting a goal of x000 MW of new generation by a date certain, 3) getting the utilities to gradually buy more power forward and 4) setting up a group of rate analysts and other ""nonadvocates"" to develop solutions to a number of issues including designing the portfolio and forward purchase terms for utilities. He was also quite interested in examining the incentives surrounding LDC gas purchases.   As already mentioned, he was also favorably disposed to finding some state sponsored credit support for the utilities. His ideas:  The gov read from a list of ideas some of which were obviously under serious consideration and some of which were mere ""brainstorming"". Some of these ideas would require legislative action. State may build (or make build/transfer arrangements) a ""couple"" of generation plants.  The gov feels strongly that he has to show consumers that they are getting something in return for bearing some rate increases.  This was a frequently recurring theme. Utilities would sell the output from generation they still own on a cost-plus basis to consumers. Municipal utilties would be required to sell their excess generation in California. State universities (including UC/CSU and the community colleges) would more widely deploy distributed generation. Expand in-state gas production. Take state lands gas royalties in kind. negotiate directly with tribes and state governments in the west for addtional gas supplies. Empower an existing state agency to approve/coordinate power plant maintenance schedules to avoid having too much generation out of service at any one time. Condition emissions offsets on commitments to sell power longer term in state. Either eliminate the ISO or sharply curtail its function -- he wants to hear more about how Nordpool works(Jeff- someone in Schroeder's group should be able to help out here). Wants to condition new generation on a commitment to sell in state.  We made some headway with the idea that he could instead require utilities to buy some portion of their forward requirements from new in-state generation thereby accomplishing the same thing without using a command and control approach with generators. Securitize uncollected power purchase costs. To dos: (Jeff, again I'd like to prevail on you to assemble the group's thoughts and get them to Kari) He wants to see 5 year fixed power prices for peak/ off-peak and baseload -- not just the 5 one year strips. He wants comments on his proposals by Tuesday. He would like thoughts on how to pitch what consumers are getting out of the deal. He wants to assemble a group of energy gurus to help sort through some of the forward contracting issues. Thanks to everyone for their help.  We made some progress today. 
The attachment. 
Scott sent this to Marty, but I assume you already have had communications with him about this. 
In case you didn't see. 
Marty.  This is a summary of our message from this morning for you to send on or discuss with Keene.  I hope this is helpful.  Scott What's important Give solvency to the utilities by guaranteeing no banckruptcy against the generation assets of the utilities.  Guarantees to be recovered, if needed, through surcharges over 10 years.  This should give the process time for thoughtful solutions.  Ending the rate freeze now will give the utilities an undeserved windfall (3.5b alone related to nuclear assets in year 2001). There should be thoughtful process to determine: i) how to keep deregulation going, ii) how existing generation assets should be used, iii) what are the value of existing assets, iv) when is the appropriate time for customers to be exposed to the market, and v) what kind of market structure would be appropriate going forward. Customers should not be dumped into the market, now or in the next year, while it is extremely illiquid due to many errors of the utilities. There should not be retroactive rate making (the negative ctc should be paid until at least the rate freeze is ended) All customers should be treated equally with respect to existing generation assets that they paid for for the past 4-30 years. There should be a special hearing called to debate demand side prospects (ie. curtailment etc.) 
The Governor cancelled the meeting at the last minute.  Apparently, he was trying to schedule a meeting with Clinton and our meeting conflicted, so we were bumped.  We are trying to set a new time.  I will share with the Governor's energy advisor the information and recommendations all of you helped put together.  Thanks 
The Governor cancelled the meeting at the last minute.  Apparently, he was trying to schedule a meeting with Clinton and our meeting conflicted, so we were bumped.  We are trying to set a new time.  I will share with the Governor's energy advisor the information and recommendations all of you helped put together.  Thanks 
Steve, Ginger: The first file has the charts and data you requested. I am also forwading some charts on price caps.  You may be interested in the charts on California Stage 1/2/3 emergencies. Alan Comnes 
Use this file:  I have dated the forward price curve chart so that it is clear it is prices as of today. GAC Alan Comnes 12/22/2000 01:39 PM 
Steve, Ginger: The first file has the charts and data you requested. I am also forwading some charts on price caps.  You may be interested in the charts on California Stage 1/2/3 emergencies. Alan Comnes 
Minor edits as shown.  Otherwise, looks good. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/02/2001 04:20 PM 
See revisions.  Am also attaching the ""solutions document"" we left with the Governor.  I think we should follow that basic format and include the solutions set out there. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/02/2001 01:40 PM 
It could certainly use some doctoring, but it's getting there. I'm now shifting my focus to the ""informal advisory group"" on procurement. 
See suggestions Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/02/2001 05:28 PM 
Greetings: Attached is the draft.  I've attempted to capture everyone's comments.  The only piece that is not likely to go this evening is the piece providing comments on the Governor's specific proposals.  That will likely go first thing tomorrow morning.  You'll note that only one of the Governor's proposals currently has any comments attached to it.  Comments on the Governor's proposals are appreciated.  The remainder of the materials will go to the Governor's staff later this evening; so any and all comments on those portions are welcomed and appreciated.  Thanks to all for the assistance, particularly in light of the holiday. Best, Jeff 
My comments Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/03/2001 12:37 PM 
I've had to spend a little time negotiating this AM with ENA and EES, but I'm confident that they'll be OK with this version. 
Here they are.  Please review and provide comments quickly.  I'd like to get this off to Kari ASAP.  Thanks. Jeff 
I tinkered a bit more with the background doc. 
12:30 P.M. (NOONISH) ON SUNDAY, JAN.  21 
You need to be aware that we are in the process of selling the Wind Co.  Mark Metts and Amit Walya are working on this.  If the price changes under the QF contracts it would impact the sale.  Call Amit to discuss (345-5570). Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/21/2001 10:23 AM 
P.M. (NOONISH) ON SUNDAY, JAN.  21 
P.M. (NOONISH) ON SUNDAY, JAN.  21 An important conference call is scheduled for 12:30 p.m. (PST) on Sunday, Today, Jan 21 to discuss the status of legislative meetings on QF/SRAC matters. Call-In number is            888-422-7124 Particpant Code is          111756 Status Report After a marathon 12 hour meeting with Assemplyman Keeley, Senator Battin, QF Parties, and SCE, a Keeley sponsored ""deal"" was proposed at 3:30 a.m. this morning.  The crux of the deal is as follows: For renewables and non-gas fired QF, essentially ... 7.8 cents/kwh for delivered power for 5 years [""all in"", i.e. includes capacity and energy] 1.0 on losses no 'clawback' for wind resources which may have failed to meet fixed capacity obligations in the past Applies ""going forward"" (presumedly Feb. 1) For gas-fired QFs... 7.8 cents/kwh for five years, assuming gas is $5.60;  payment will increase/decrease tied to gas  (this assumes an IER of 9821) 1.0 on line losses 
Please send comments to Elizabeth ASAP. 
A starting point for the California section of the Conference Call script. Please comment.  Thanks. 
I think there is merit in pursuing this.  A couple of comments: It may be unduly complicated to get customers to provide the funding. =20 Perhaps we should focus on the banks instead.  The deal might be further=20 funding in exchange for legislative and regulatory concessions on rates,=20 transmission and generation siting and the rest of the items you outline. Rubin would be great to have, but having watched Summers in action I'm not= =20 sure we need another ex-treas.  Summers is superb, up-to-speed, and=20 apparently willing to work on this.  Linda -- how would Larry feel if we=20 brought in his ex-boss (I know they're buddies but does Summers really need= =20 the help?). Need to keep an eye on the ball for large customers-- many of whom are ours= . =20 they will continue to need some access to better rates.  Perhaps the propos= al=20 could be converted to cash in exchange for demand reductions. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/20/2001 10:54 PM =20 
ergy=20 Crisis 
ergy=20 Crisis Dean Tyson: It was a pleasure to see you again today. Phil, it was a pleasure to meet y= ou=20 and I look forward to working together.  Since time is of the essence, I=20 wanted to summarize where we left off at today=01,s meeting regarding Calif= ornia=01, s energy crisis.  That summary is attached.  I've also attached three=20 articles from the business section of today's Chronicle that arguably bolst= er=20 our arguments for adopting the approach that we discussed at today's meetin= g. Given the fact that the legislative process is moving rapidly, bankruptcy = is=20 a daily threat, and Dean Tyson will be attending the meetings in Davos, it= =20 appears that our window of opportunity is very small.  It seems that succes= s=20 requires a meeting of the principals by the end of the week, if not sooner.= =20 The chances of success are obviously limited, but I think that we agreed th= at=20 all concerned have nothing to lose and everything to gain by taking a shot.= =20 Your offer to help in the effort obviously increases the likelihood of=20 success and is greatly appreciated. =20 My apologies in advance if I have mischaracterized any of the points made a= t=20 the meeting.  It represents a =01&first cut,=018 it will undoubtedly change= as the=20 details get worked out, and I=01,m sure I=01,ve missed something.  So pleas= e don=01,t=20 hesitate to edit the draft. Please keep in mind that I have not had a chance to discuss this proposal= =20 internally.  As such, I can=01,t yet commit Enron to the specifics of the= =20 proposal.  But I=01,m confident that the company can support something akin= to=20 this structure and can let you and Phil know first thing Monday. In addition, given the political environment in California, Enron has playe= d=20 a constructive role by providing low-key, behind the scenes advice and=20 analysis to policy makers.  That approach seems preferable in this effort a= s=20 well. Finally, Dean Tyson, I mentioned that Linda Robertson heads-up our Washingt= on=20 D.C. office.  If she can help in any way, please don=01,t hesitate to let m= e=20 know.  Both of you should feel free to call me at home over the weekend to= =20 discuss things further.  My home phone is 415.621.8317. Best, Jeff 
My proposed changes. 
A starting point for the California section of the Conference Call script. Please comment.  Thanks. 
attachment Steven J Kean 01/21/2001 05:02 PM 
My proposed changes. 
A starting point for the California section of the Conference Call script. Please comment.  Thanks. 
Thanks to everyone for their work on the Senate hearing.  There are a couple of follow-up items: Thanks to the Portland and Washington teams, Sen Wyden is very interested in identifying the kind of information we need from the ISO (and PX to the extent it's still relevant) to make the market work better.  We have written this up before, I think we just need to put it in letter form.  Alan -- please take the lead on this and get a draft to Linda.  I think we should identify the information and also prepare a letter for the Chairman (?) that could be sent to the FERC. Murkowski (the Committee Chairman) asked for an itemized list of things the fed should do to expedite siting as well as anything else we feel is necessary  to address the California crisis.  We have identified the need for open access across the nation, but he is looking for what can be done in the 2-4 month time frame.  Dave, I think your memo to me is a good start.  Sue -- could you please put those and any other suggestions in letter form and get them to Linda? Finally, Sen Feinstein asked all of the witnesses to ask their CEOs not to ""price gouge"" -- yes, that's what she said.  She appealed to everyone's community spirit and asked suppliers to forbear charging high prices while California struggles to fix its problems.  I think we should send a response from Ken.  Jeff -- please take a cut and get to Linda.  I think the basic messages should be:  we are actively working on solutions with California policymakers (forward contracting was our idea after all); we are actively pursuing demand reduction in the state, etc.  We should also explain the nature of our business and pick up on some of the other solutions we 
Attached is the ""pitch"" our sales representatives are presenting to customers in California, a list of customers and a Q&A. Karen - I am also faxing to your house in case these files are too large for you to download at home before you leave for California. Please call me with any questions. 713-667-8511 713-504-4338 713=345-7034 Peggy 
I am attaching several items that I hope you will find useful when you brief Chambers: A background document (which is a bit dated, but still useful). This is an internal document, so I would appreciate it if you would keep it confidential (though you are free to use the content in your own messages or documents). A basic outline of solutions. A summary of the Governor's recent executive orders. (It's another internal analysis.) I think these orders show a better understanding of the problems and solutions than we have seen before.  As we discussed on the phone, our biggest problem is inertia ... we don't have much time, many solutions have long lead times, and the political wheels grind slowly. Jeff Dasovich: please forward any specifics on the demand buy down proposal 
Sorry that we haven't talked in some time.  I thought that you would want to take a look at some analysis we have recently completed with regard to the California Power Crisis.  You may find some of the analysis to be helpful.  Let me know if you have any questions. (See attached file: 10209 zxd414.ppt) +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | This message may contain confidential and/or privileged     | | information.  If you are not the addressee or authorized to | | receive this for the addressee, you must not use, copy,     | | disclose or take any action based on this message or any    | | information herein.  If you have received this message in   | | error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail | | and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.   | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ 
I am attaching the FERC order and staff recommendations.  The order provides for $69 million in ""potential"" refunds (either pay up or provide cost justification).  Enron was not named as one of the 13 overcharging parties, but PGE was ($3.18 million).  It's not over yet, though.  The order deals only with Jan 01 and promises further orders regarding Dec 00 and benchmark prices through April 01.  The prices used to determine refunds were fairly high ($273/mwh based on gas prices, emissions costs and an assumed heat rate of over 16000). With respect to sales to California, we have concluded at least one short term sale and have talked with Cal Dept of Water Resources about longer term deals, but we were still struggling with credit issues, last I heard.  I'm copying Jeff Dasovich because I'm sure he has more up to date information. Mark Schroeder@ECT 03/11/2001 02:11 PM 
In the press, I saw two news stories that I wondered if we (Enron) had any role/hand in, and what was the offical ""spin"" in both cases.  1)  The FERC Order requiring something like 55-65 million dollars in refunds by generators (or did it include traders) for overcharging in California in December, if I recall my facts/news stories correctly, and 2) the reports of 40 companies entering into 10-year contracts with California (touted by Davis).  Was Enron a contracting party?  Do we think this is a good solution (I think I know the answer, but defer to your lead on this, so we stay on your message)?  thanks mcs 
As to whether long term contracting by Cal. is a good idea, the answer is somewhat mixed.  We were one of the early parties pointing out the problems with total reliance on the spot market and encouraging more forward contracting.  Given the utilities' precarious financial position there were two options: 1) outsource the default provider obligation to the market (this is what we prefer but there was no political support for it), or 2) have the state put its credit behind the purchases.  California is pursuing the latter, with CDWR prucahsing the utilities' requirements.  In the short term, we have criticized the state's plan because it contemplates state takeover of the grid; state participation in power plant financing, construction, and ownership; and they have not made it clear that CDWR really has the money to pay for all the purchases.  I am attaching text I have used as the base for a number of communications with policymakers. Mark Schroeder@ECT 03/11/2001 02:11 PM 
In the press, I saw two news stories that I wondered if we (Enron) had any role/hand in, and what was the offical ""spin"" in both cases.  1)  The FERC Order requiring something like 55-65 million dollars in refunds by generators (or did it include traders) for overcharging in California in December, if I recall my facts/news stories correctly, and 2) the reports of 40 companies entering into 10-year contracts with California (touted by Davis).  Was Enron a contracting party?  Do we think this is a good solution (I think I know the answer, but defer to your lead on this, so we stay on your message)?  thanks mcs 
I am attaching the FERC order and staff recommendations.  The order provides for $69 million in ""potential"" refunds (either pay up or provide cost justification).  Enron was not named as one of the 13 overcharging parties, but PGE was ($3.18 million).  It's not over yet, though.  The order deals only with Jan 01 and promises further orders regarding Dec 00 and benchmark prices through April 01.  The prices used to determine refunds were fairly high ($273/mwh based on gas prices, emissions costs and an assumed heat rate of over 16000). With respect to sales to California, we have concluded at least one short term sale and have talked with Cal Dept of Water Resources about longer term deals, but we were still struggling with credit issues, last I heard.  I'm copying Jeff Dasovich because I'm sure he has more up to date information. Mark Schroeder@ECT 03/11/2001 02:11 PM 
In the press, I saw two news stories that I wondered if we (Enron) had any role/hand in, and what was the offical ""spin"" in both cases.  1)  The FERC Order requiring something like 55-65 million dollars in refunds by generators (or did it include traders) for overcharging in California in December, if I recall my facts/news stories correctly, and 2) the reports of 40 companies entering into 10-year contracts with California (touted by Davis).  Was Enron a contracting party?  Do we think this is a good solution (I think I know the answer, but defer to your lead on this, so we stay on your message)?  thanks mcs 
It was not mentioned to me.  I'm copying rosie and vanessa to find out if this was a simple referral (in which case you should keep the work to a minimum -- return the call, but don't get distracted from your other efforts) or whether Ken is especially interested in this and wants us to follow through. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 03:54 PM 
Just got a call from a fellow named Jame Edgerly at the Enterprise Zone, Inc.  He told me that Ken Lay (through Ken's secretary Vanessa) referred me to him.  He is very interested in getting us to help him work with the Legislature to establish an ""Enterprise Zone"" energy tariff to encourage investment in California's Enterprice Zones.  Before I launch on the effort, just wanted to check in and see if this rings a bell with you.  Thanks. Best, Jeff 
When we have described the problems and solutions for California we have focussed on generation siting and flexibility to hedge.  We have stayed away from transmission issues on the assumption that California, with its ISO and PX, does not suffer from the same discrimination issues as other parts of the country.  Is this true?  Does California's system layer in priorities for utility use of the system -- eg doesn't PG&E control ""path 15""?  Does that control provide advantageous access to PG&E?  Are there other examples and are there links between these ""preferences"" and the current problems in California?  As we are trying to convert reliability and pricing concerns 
Skilling will be speaking at the National Press Club next week.  He'll give an overview of Enron's business, talk about what's going on in power markets, and what should be done to fix the current problems.  California will get covered as well.  Other than what we have already discussed, is there 
It was not mentioned to me.  I'm copying rosie and vanessa to find out if this was a simple referral (in which case you should keep the work to a minimum -- return the call, but don't get distracted from your other efforts) or whether Ken is especially interested in this and wants us to follow through. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 03:54 PM 
Just got a call from a fellow named Jame Edgerly at the Enterprise Zone, Inc.  He told me that Ken Lay (through Ken's secretary Vanessa) referred me to him.  He is very interested in getting us to help him work with the Legislature to establish an ""Enterprise Zone"" energy tariff to encourage investment in California's Enterprice Zones.  Before I launch on the effort, just wanted to check in and see if this rings a bell with you.  Thanks. Best, Jeff 
Look at this.  Baum finally speaks up  -- way too late. Can somebody tell me what SDG&E's energy rate was pre-dereg? 
It was not mentioned to me.  I'm copying rosie and vanessa to find out if this was a simple referral (in which case you should keep the work to a minimum -- return the call, but don't get distracted from your other efforts) or whether Ken is especially interested in this and wants us to follow through. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 03:54 PM 
Just got a call from a fellow named Jame Edgerly at the Enterprise Zone, Inc.  He told me that Ken Lay (through Ken's secretary Vanessa) referred me to him.  He is very interested in getting us to help him work with the Legislature to establish an ""Enterprise Zone"" energy tariff to encourage investment in California's Enterprice Zones.  Before I launch on the effort, just wanted to check in and see if this rings a bell with you.  Thanks. Best, Jeff 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Attached is the presentation I used for a very general update on deregulation; it includes some California material. 
These are useful updates.  Please include Whalley, Lavorato, Parquet, Dietrich, Delainey, Kitchens, Haedicke, Sanders, Kirby, Sharp, Leff, Calger, Belden etc on future updates.  Thanks 
These are useful updates.  Please include Whalley, Lavorato, Parquet, Dietrich, Delainey, Kitchens, Haedicke, Sanders, Kirby, Sharp, Leff, Calger, Belden etc on future updates.  Thanks 
Bonnie:  Please forward to Michael Kirby. I think the draft looks good.  Could you also prepare a draft of the letter we discussed yesterday to convey the proposal to the committee? ""Bonnie Hugyez"" <blh@pkns.com> on 07/17/2001 12:34:20 AM 
Attached is a draft Nonwaiver Agreement per our telephone conferences of yesterday after the meetings with Senator Dunn.  I am available in my office for a conference call to discuss this. The information contained in this e-mail message and any accompanying documents is subject to the attorney-client privilege and/or the attorney work product rule and is confidential business information intended only for the use of the individual or entity named above.  If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient or representative of the recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination of this communication is strictly prohibited.  If you have received this communication in error, please notify Kathryn A. Pugh at kpugh@pkns.com and immediately delete this message from your system. - 289271_1.WPD 
My comments are attached.  I think the pleading is well written, but, as you'll see from my comments, I believe we should be incorporating more of the arguments from the previous pleading. Ray Alvarez 07/09/2001 07:14 PM 
As you may be aware, the Chief Judge informed the parties to the settlement proceeding this afternoon that he intends to recommend to the Commission that it employ the June 19 rate methodology for the refund period from October 2 forward. Attached are draft comments that Sarah Novosel and I propose to submit to the Judge and his legal staff tomorrow.  While we would like to convince the Judge that the June 19 methodology is not appropriate, we also provide a fallback approach. Please review the comments (they are only 4 pages) and send your comments to us.  We plan to submit the comments tomorrow. Thanks Ray and Sarah 
I know we are holding for a later filing, but I have attached further comments anyway.  The document is still too rough to send out.  We need to take the opportunity, as soon as possible, to get a hard hitting, thoroughly researched and carefully written document in front of the Commissioners. California's reaction to the Judge's recommendation is likely to give FERC (especially the new commissioners) a feel for how irrational the California politicians can be.  We will have a limited opportunity to take advantage of that realization.  We need to hit it hard in the pleading, our conversations at the Commission, the Hill and the media. Linda Robertson 07/09/2001 09:58 AM 
Let me emphasize that these comments are to be filed COB TODAY. James D Steffes 07/09/2001 10:50 AM 
HERE IS THE MOST RECENT STATEMENT WITH STEVE'S COMMENTS. Jim 
fyi 
Ken left a msg for me on Sunday.  He was able to return Bryson's call.  Not much new: Ken got Jeff's paper will try to reach Hertzberg on Monday. Bryson gave an update (very consistent with yours on Fri) Wants us to think creatively about ""how to keep DWR contracts from preventing the comprehensive solution"" and how to address the concerns of the state treasurer. 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. Thanks. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. Thanks. 
Just FYI.  These guys did a great job on the polling here, but I can't speak to their other qualifications or their California ties. 
1. Thank you for all your support on the Arena Proposition. 2. The following article reminded me to pass along a note about a PR/PA firm in California who Baselice & Associates worked with this year in passing Prop 35 (a contracting out initiative).  The firm is a full service firm named Woodward & McDowell.  They have been active in California legislative and initiative battles for some 20 years and I highly recommend them if Enron is in search of support with the electric deregulation fight out there.  Dick Woodward or Dave Fogarty can be reached at 650-340-0470. If you have any questions, please call. Mike MICHAEL BASELICE Baselice & Associates, Inc. 4131 Spicewood Springs Road Suite O-2 Austin, TX  78759 Phone: (512) 345-9720 Fax: (512) 345-9740 email: mikeb@baselice.com November 8, 2000 Calif Regulators,Grid Oper In Turf War Over Generation By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES-California's electricity regulators and power-grid operator are locked in a turf war over who has the authority to order new power plant construction next summer to ensure the state has enough juice on hand when demand soars. The California Public Utilities Commission says it can bring emergency power on line at a fraction of the cost that the Independent System Operator is expected to pay independent power producers for the same service. Under it's plan, PG&E Corp. (PCG) unit Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Edison International's (EIX) Southern California Edison unit and Sempra Energy's (SRE) San Diego Gas & Electric Co. were ordered to submit documents by the end of November stating whether they can build and operate ""peaking"" plants by June 1. The utilities weren't immediately available to comment. On the other hand, the ISO - which is on the verge of signing contracts for 440 peaking units with between 20 and 91 megawatts of electricity - says the commission's meddling could endanger any chance of additional resources coming on line in time. ""Any further interference on the state level could destroy the plan altogether,"" said an ISO source close to the issue. ""There is no guarantee the utilities will be able to pull this off by next summer. And if the 
When we have described the problems and solutions for California we have focussed on generation siting and flexibility to hedge.  We have stayed away from transmission issues on the assumption that California, with its ISO and PX, does not suffer from the same discrimination issues as other parts of the country.  Is this true?  Does California's system layer in priorities for utility use of the system -- eg doesn't PG&E control ""path 15""?  Does that control provide advantageous access to PG&E?  Are there other examples and are there links between these ""preferences"" and the current problems in California?  As we are trying to convert reliability and pricing concerns 
Skilling will be speaking at the National Press Club next week.  He'll give an overview of Enron's business, talk about what's going on in power markets, and what should be done to fix the current problems.  California will get covered as well.  Other than what we have already discussed, is there 
Look at this.  Baum finally speaks up  -- way too late. Can somebody tell me what SDG&E's energy rate was pre-dereg? 
Has anyone talked with Tim B about what Larcamp said -- ie the soft cap only applies to PX and ISO bids and not to any bilateral contracts including bilateral fwd contracts? 
Just to pile on with the issues, I will add a few thoughts of my own for issues that we might want to consider in our November 20 comments. Re: the application of the price cap to only PX and ISO, Commissioner Massey is not totally on board.  He specifically asked about capping the forward market.  He raised the idea that he had gotten from the San Diego hearing that there be an accepted forward contract for a specified timeframe (18-24 months) and specified rate, and that all loads must buy a minimum percentage of their needs from this contract. A staffer (Don Gelinas) asked whether the forward/bilateral market (presumably uncapped) could take care of investment recovery so that generation not be cancelled in California. Dynegy and other marketers raised the issue of the test to be used by the Commission in reviewing transactions above the soft cap.  Specifically, what is opportunity cost?  As long as the test is not known until after the fact, there will be lack of secuity selling into the California and greater incentive to sell elsewhere. Hobbs from Williams raised the possibility that if the Commission does not eliminate the soft cap (his preferred approach), that the cap should be temporary and escalating and there should be limited time for raising issues and retaining the refund liability (he suggested that the refund liability be only for one month). Many, especially the utilities, raised their position that the Commission should not institute penalties only on the load.  They claimed this was one-sided and suggested if penalties were required, they needed to be applied to the supply side as well.  They also argued that the load could not meet the 5% test. Massey had a concern at the end of the day that the Commission's encouragement of forward contracts will be stymied by the CPUC by their authority in reviewing prudence of the utilities' purchases. Larcamp asked at the end of the day for information on the cost of generation before deregulation - normalized for gas prices and emmission prices of today.  The marketer on the panel added that we would need to include stranded costs. There was almost no support for the single price auction in California. The California politicians argued that the ISO Board structure needed to be changed, but that California had jurisdiction to change it, not FERC.  A Court battle was threatened. Steven J Kean 11/13/2000 08:51 AM 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Has anyone talked with Tim B about what Larcamp said -- ie the soft cap only applies to PX and ISO bids and not to any bilateral contracts including bilateral fwd contracts? 
Just to pile on with the issues, I will add a few thoughts of my own for issues that we might want to consider in our November 20 comments. Re: the application of the price cap to only PX and ISO, Commissioner Massey is not totally on board.  He specifically asked about capping the forward market.  He raised the idea that he had gotten from the San Diego hearing that there be an accepted forward contract for a specified timeframe (18-24 months) and specified rate, and that all loads must buy a minimum percentage of their needs from this contract. A staffer (Don Gelinas) asked whether the forward/bilateral market (presumably uncapped) could take care of investment recovery so that generation not be cancelled in California. Dynegy and other marketers raised the issue of the test to be used by the Commission in reviewing transactions above the soft cap.  Specifically, what is opportunity cost?  As long as the test is not known until after the fact, there will be lack of secuity selling into the California and greater incentive to sell elsewhere. Hobbs from Williams raised the possibility that if the Commission does not eliminate the soft cap (his preferred approach), that the cap should be temporary and escalating and there should be limited time for raising issues and retaining the refund liability (he suggested that the refund liability be only for one month). Many, especially the utilities, raised their position that the Commission should not institute penalties only on the load.  They claimed this was one-sided and suggested if penalties were required, they needed to be applied to the supply side as well.  They also argued that the load could not meet the 5% test. Massey had a concern at the end of the day that the Commission's encouragement of forward contracts will be stymied by the CPUC by their authority in reviewing prudence of the utilities' purchases. Larcamp asked at the end of the day for information on the cost of generation before deregulation - normalized for gas prices and emmission prices of today.  The marketer on the panel added that we would need to include stranded costs. There was almost no support for the single price auction in California. The California politicians argued that the ISO Board structure needed to be changed, but that California had jurisdiction to change it, not FERC.  A Court battle was threatened. Steven J Kean 11/13/2000 08:51 AM 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
Another key point:  to avoid the mistakes of California, policy makers must make it easy to site and interconnect new generation.  In California peak demand rose by about 5500 MW from 1996 - 2000.  The market responded with porposed capacity additions of about 11000 MW.  Most of these facilities are working thier way through the tangle of state and local approvals.  The problems we saw in California did not need to occur if policy makers simply enabled the market to work.  Also, it's worth noting that the deregulated market did work.  Customers who signed with Enron saw a lower bill than prederegulation, Enron hedged its commitments and so our customers (and Enron) did just fine during the summer.  Deregulation worked; the problems in California can be directly traced to continued regulatory interference in the market. Susan J Mara 11/17/2000 06:09 PM 
Mark, Here's my shot.  I did it in Revision mode so you can see the changes.  Note that Enron never got out of the retail market in CA and has gathered about 1,000 MW of retail load -- we're bigger than all but two of the municipal utilities in the state.  Enron stopped marketing to residential consumers -- that's what all the  fuss was about in 1997.  Anyone else feel free to take your own shot. Sue Mark Schroeder@ECT 11/17/2000 09:52 AM 
Some of our people get asked on the phone about what is going on in California.  I have drafted the attached paper for their use.  It is intended to be simple and user-friendly.  Your thoughts on whether I achieved that objectvie are welcome.  More importantly, I need you to confimr that I got the story and facts correct, and that I have not said anything about the situation that you (Enron USA) would not want to say, or have not said, or if we have said something fundamentally different, I need to know that, too. thanks for taking the time to review.  mcs 
It's worth noting too (perhaps as part of Jeff's first or second points) that in addition to chasing existing power supplies out of the state, price caps, and the uncertainty surrounding them, chase new generation away.  The turbine market is a worldwide market.  Firms will have difficulty committing their own capital (and borrowing from others) if they propose to put facilities in jurisdisctions where rates are capped or pricing is based on something other than the operation of the market.  Several generators, including Dynegy and Calpine, have said they will look for other homes for the turbines they have ordered. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 11/17/2000 02:44 PM 
Rob: Here's a quick and dirty list of some lessons from California that Alberta may not want to repeat.  Steve, let me know if I've missed any messages we're using to describe California's woes (or mangled any, for that matter.  If you have any questions, don't hestitate to get in touch. Best, Jeff 
Jeff Dasovich and I, along with several IEP members, met with Gov Davis'=20 staff today, including his Chief of Staff, his Staff Director and two polic= y=20 advisors on energy issues.  They made the following points: The Governor is personally spending a great deal of time on electricity=20 issues (and is forcing them to spend their time on it as well). The Governor recognizes that part of the problem is a supply shortage, but= =20 they put special emphasis on the view that in addition to supply shortfalls= ,=20 a big part of the problem is a ""dysfunctional market"" -- a thinly veiled=20 reference to price manipulation by people sitting in the room. The Governor's view is that all participants (regulators, utilities,=20 customers and generators) must ""behave responsibly"". Everyone must ""share the pain"". The legislative battles are likely to start as soon as the legislature=20 returns next week, and the Governor will be putting forth several legislati= ve=20 proposals in the next couple of weeks. While staff went out of its way to say that the list of proposals (in the= =20 attached e-mail) were unofficial and for discussion purposes only, it was= =20 fairly clear that they defined much of what the governor plans to propose. The meeting was not very encouraging nor did it provide much in the way of= =20 new information.  The IEP group was on message, making the usual arguments= =20 about the need for forward contracting, expedited generation and transmissi= on=20 siting, a real retail market to promote demand side responses, etc.  The=20 staff is clearly focussed on forward contracting as part of the solution bu= t=20 remains committed to the idea that generators have to cough up some money a= nd=20 remain subject to rate caps, possible restrictions on sales outside the sta= te=20 (at least at peak times), etc.  One approach they appear to be toying with = is=20 a ""share the pain"" proposal which would have utilities absorbing some of th= e=20 deferred costs and consumers absorbing some of the deferred costs in the fo= rm=20 of higher rates.  That leaves generators ... who they might want to either= =20 agree to some refunds or provide power at lower going-forward prices. The staff says that they remain open to proposed solutions, but the Davis= =20 administration appears unwilling to spend any political capital to fix the= =20 problem. =20 I think we are in for a lengthy legislative and PUC fight.  We should, as= =20 always, provide consistent and reasonable solutions.  I think we should=20 prepare a document for distribution to staff, legislators (and anyone else)= =20 that takes the factual background and proposed solutions we have put forwar= d=20 (eg in Belden's presentation and the Seabron Adamson whitepaper) and wraps= =20 them in a more political context.  In other words, we have already=20 articulated the right answers; we now need to put a political rationale=20 around our proposals -- a set of arguments which responds directly to the= =20 political opposition those answers are likely to encounter.  Jeff will foll= ow=20 up with one of the staff members in particular (Kari Dohn) and I would=20 suggest that Jeff and Sandi work together on putting the necessary politica= l=20 rhetoric around the solutions we have proposed. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 11/22/2000 04:00 PM =20 
Steve:  FYI.  Don't worry about the conference call, but thought it might b= e=20 useful to review the proposals prior to Monday's meeting. See you Monday. Happy Thanksgiving to all. Best, Jeff ***************************************************************************= *** ************************************** Several IEP companies have been invited to a meeting with the Governor=01,s= =20 staff next Monday, November 27th. The following are some options, which the Governor=01,s office is consideri= ng. =20 IEP is doing some preliminary research on some of these topics.  IEP would= =20 like to arrange a teleconference call around noon on Monday, November 27th = to=20 discuss the Governor=01,s meeting.  Please advise us as to whether your hav= e=20 been invited, and who you are sending. California=01,s electricity supply situation has two inter-related problems= =01)=20 (1) high wholesale electricity costs, and (2) marginally adequate supply of= =20 generation =01) both have combined to create a dysfunctional wholesale=20 electricity market.  The goals should be: To assure reliable electricity to California consumers for the lowest=20 reasonable cost. o Consider requiring that all in-state generation be sold in state. o Consider re-asserting state authority over the operation, maintenance and= =20 safety practices of all in-state generating facilities=01, for public healt= h and=20 safety purposes. o Consider developing a state power authority to build generation and=20 own/operate transmission. o Consider requiring utilities both to retain existing and to build new=20 generation. o Consider providing utilities with authority to stabilize retail prices to= =20 be paid by consumers through development of an energy portfolio that reduce= s=20 exposure to spot markets, including contracting forward for much more of=20 their unmet power needs. o Consider extending consumer rate freeze. o Consider centralizing power plant dispatch like the other ISOs in the res= t=20 of the country. o Consider eliminating the ISO and assigning its functions to either a stat= e=20 or private entity that can acquire the transmission facilities, and control= =20 the electricity transmission grid (MUNIs have proposed this). o Consider sponsoring/supporting legislation to change the ISO and PX board= s=20 to increase accountability. o Expand energy conservation programs focused both on immediate peak demand= =20 reduction and on longer term, broader-based programs. o Aggressively work to site new generation and transmission facilities, to= =20 streamline permitting, and to develop renewable resources. o Call for/sponsor federal FERC reform legislation that would: o Impose a regional price cap that varies by time of day and year; o Set requirements for FERC to use its retroactive refund authority; o Improve FERC enforcement over price gouging practices; o Affirm the role of states to protect their customers from unjust prices. o Pressure the FERC to do its job to (1) bring about responsible seller=20 behavior in wholesale electric markets through price controls and other=20 market interventions as necessary, and (2) provide refunds to affected=20 consumers. 
Jeff Dasovich and Steve Kean are attending.  Someone can be on a call -- me= =20 if no one else -- if Jeff and Steve are travelling at the time. Hey, does t= he=20 Governor have to fly coach? ""CHUDSON"" <carol@iepa.com> 11/22/2000 12:47 PM =20 
Jan Smutny-Jones, Exec Dir Independent Energy Producers Assn. 1112 I Street, Suite 380 Sacramento, CA 95814 PH: 916-448-9499 FX: 916-448-0182 iepa@iepa.com - Govs meeting Conf Call.doc 
Proposed edits attached.  Looks good -- I like the references to the energy savings... I think we should try to get this story some play in california; not necessarily in the media but perhaps with some of the folks we are working with in the Gov's office.  Please copy Dasovich and Mccubbin on the final. Extra congratulations on the USA Today story. Peggy Mahoney@EES 11/27/2000 09:39 PM 
The Macerich Company has agreed to distribute the attached news release about our recent energy management agreement.  Although it was a third quarter agreement, I'd really like to have this ""officially"" on the record.  Please review the attached draft and let me know your thoughts by end of day Tuesday, November 28. x57034. Thanks Peggy 
Given the way the numbers came out, I guess we don't need the talking points, but we should still try to get to the bottom of this because we will be called on to comment to regulators and media.  Unless we have strong evidence to the contrary, it seems to me that wholesale markets are working .... they are open and they are competitive.  On the other hand, retail gas markets suffer from the same problems as electric markets ... they are not open, customers don't have effective choices and price signals don't get through, so there is no demand response when prices rise. On the points raised in the attachment, I'm still not sure I follow point 4. Also what does"" electric disconnect"" mean? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 12/12/2000 02:40 PM 
Leslie:  Looks good.  Just a couple of comments: 1. General May want to point out that the roots of California's current gas woes are the same ones causing the electric problem---combined effect of California's ""import-based"" energy policy and the state's failure to invest in in-state infrastructure.  California imports about 25% of its electricity, but about 80-90 percent of its gas supply.  California has failed to invest in the in-state infrastructure necessary to support increased gas demand over the last decade.  So we've got an interstate pipeline superhighway to the border and a dirt road of in-state transportation once you get into California. The last bullet seems to suggest that manipulation may be taking place.  Can we support that suggestion, and is it one that we want to make necessarily? If we do suggest that manipulation may in part explain current prices, do we need to propose ways to eliminate it?  Otherwise, seems that we may be giving FERC ammunition to take action without trying to ""steer"" that action in the right direction.  Maybe I'm reading too much into the bullet. 2. Specific Competition for gas coming to California has increased significantly.  The midwest (via Alliance) is competing away Canadian gas.  The Southwest (Nevada, Arizona) is competing away supply from the Southwest before it hits the California border. Mary Hain@ECT 12/12/2000 11:58 AM 
We thought it would be good to basically give Chair Hoecker talking points with any numbers that Enron provides.  We will visit on these later today when the numbers are ready (before 3:00).  Comments? 
Please send any comments directly to Peggy. 
Attached is the first Q&A draft.  Please review, add questions, edit, etc. This will be used as a guide for media and government affairs responses. Evan/Diann - It needs to be tailored for use as a customer service script. There are some blanks we could use your help on - noted in blue. Max Eberts at 58804 and Beth Tilney at 35022 will be the contacts for edits via email or by phone.  I will call-in when I arrive in Washington at about 1:30pm. Thanks Peggy 
Ken Lay spoke with several California CEOs this morning and urged them to get personally involved in pushing for a comprehensive set of reforms.  Three expressed willingness to help. Scott McNealy (Sun):  contact person - Piper Cole (piper.cole@sun.com); scott.mcnealy@engeng.sun.com.  Mcnealy wants, by close of business today, a ""cheat sheet"" of the talking points to use with politicians (the ""8 or 10 elements of the solution"") with the expected comeback he may hear from the political leaders and our response to that comeback.  He says he hasn't spent time working on issues in Sacremento so we may also want to include a list of suggested contacts. Kevin Sharer (Amgen): contact person - Sarah Jensen, VP of Engineering and Operations (805.447.6785); ksharer@amgen.com.  Sharer wants the same information as McNealy and he and McNealy both indicated their willingness to call a meeting of other California CEOs.  Sharer will also be having breakfast with Hertzberg one week from today. Robert Day (Trust Co of the West):  said that he is very close to the mayor of Los Angeles.  He urged Ken to call the mayor (mentioning Day).  Ken would like some talking points for that call. 
California State University System 
I think the meeting is on Wednesday, but if you can be there (Sacremento, I expect) you should.  As I mentioned in my voicemail, I think the meeting will not be particularly substantive;  more likely it is a photo op for the governor to show how tough he is on the pirate generators.  Based on your message below, should we still plan to send somebody?  I still think we should if we can manage the legal risk. Mike:  would you be able to attend as well? 
I think we should let people in the legislature know about this and see if one or more of them can get their hands on it. 
fyi. 
Ken wanted you to have a copy 
FYI.? The complete version of the following paper is available on my web pa= ge=20 at: www.whogan.com ????????ON THE EXERCISE OF MARKET POWER THROUGH STRATEGIC WITHHOLDING IN CALIFORNIA Scott Harvey and William W. Hogan April 24, 2001 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Beginning in June of 2000, the shock of unexpectedly high prices in the=20 California electricity market convinced everyone of the need for policies t= o=20 correct the apparent market failures.? The public debate and policy=20 discussions have been dominated by a focus on market power as a principal= =20 problem amenable to regulatory solution.? However, design of effective=20 policies to moderate prices or mitigate their effects depends on the=20 diagnosis of the underlying causes.? High prices attributable largely to an= =20 exercise of market power in electric generation would point to particular= =20 market participants and behaviors that could be targeted for regulatory=20 action.? By contrast, high prices attributable to bad electricity market=20 design would indicate a need for changes in the design.? High prices=20 attributable to higher fuel prices, environmental constraints and capacity= =20 shortages, on the other hand, would prompt actions to address the cost of= =20 fuel and environmental limitations and indicate that retail loads should=20 receive the appropriate price signal for conservation. Suppliers could affect market prices by strategically withholding some=20 capacity in order to profit on the capacity actually sold in the market.? B= ut=20 charging high prices during periods of scarcity is not classified as=20 exercising market power if there is no strategic withholding of supply.?=20 Likewise, refusing to supply without being paid is not an exercise of marke= t=20 power.? Although the potential for withholding exists for many suppliers, t= he=20 focus of attention has been on the exercise of market power by thermal=20 generators in California. On its face, the experience of extremely high prices suggests that the=20 exercise of market power could be important.? But at the same time the data= =20 show that there have been profound changes in the California market such th= at=20 the thermal generators have actually increased their production more than= =20 demand has grown.? If anything, thermal generators that hit annual output= =20 limits produced too much rather than too little in the summer of 2000.?=20 Furthermore, the widespread impacts of higher electricity prices throughout= =20 the western market, both on and off peak,? indicate that if the exercise of= =20 market power is important it is occurring to an extent and through channels= =20 unprecedented in this or other electricity markets.? In short, this is a=20 complicated story, and there is ample room for further investigation of the= =20 data and diagnosis of causes. Examination of the major analyses of the exercise of market power reveals= =20 that the estimated magnitude of the possible strategic withholding of=20 electric generation is small enough to make it important to verify the=20 simplifying assumptions.? If strategic withholding were large and pervasive= ,=20 then the real details of the California electricity market could be ignored= .?=20 But it is by now apparent that the evidence is not clear, and any finding o= f=20 the presence or absence of strategic withholding of generation in the=20 California electricity market could turn on the simplifying assumptions use= d=20 in the analysis of the data.? For example, annual limits on production=20 dictate that plants should not run in many hours when prices are higher tha= n=20 direct incremental costs; hence, examinations of output decisions for=20 individual hours or months are necessarily incomplete.? The variation in re= al=20 time conditions is large enough to produce significant reductions in output= =20 compared to the expectations given day-ahead prices; hence, with capacity= =20 constraints average optimal production is necessarily less than optimal=20 production at average prices.? Limits on the ramping rate of generation=20 units, start-up costs, minimum load costs and other operational=20 inflexibilities imply that a dispatch day is not just twenty-four separate= =20 hours and must be analyzed chronologically, recognizing these factors.? And= =20 so on.? Accounting for such effects can reverse the implications of the=20 previous evidence.? Unfortunately, the real details are neither simple nor= =20 incidental. It is difficult to conduct a study of market power based solely on publicly= =20 available data.? A fuller analysis would require data available only to the= =20 California Independent System Operator, and has not been done.? Many factor= s=20 contributed to higher electricity prices in California, and the market powe= r=20 theme is only, at most, part of the story.? The import of the previous=20 analyses is not to prove that market power has been exercised in the=20 California electricity market but, rather, to suggest that it might be=20 important.? The import of the sensitivity analysis here is not to prove tha= t=20 market power has not been exercised in the electricity market? but, rather,= =20 to suggest that it is unlikely to be the dominant factor and may not even b= e=20 significant.? With the available data in the public domain, and the special= =20 complications introduced by the California market design, the margin of err= or=20 in estimating the extent of the possible exercise of market power through= =20 strategic withholding of electric generation is of the same order of=20 magnitude as the effect being measured.? On balance, to date the publicly= =20 available data provides no reason for the Federal Energy Regulatory=20 Commission to change its conclusion that there is no evidence of strategic= =20 withholding nor any proof that no strategic withholding has occurred. By contrast, there is general agreement that the California electricity=20 market design is =01&seriously flawed.=018? Furthermore, there is evidence = that the=20 policy responses that have been adopted in California have accelerated an= =20 already serious market collapse.? Hence, without dismissing the possibility= =20 of the exercise of market power, the principal policy focus should be on=20 fashioning workable solutions for the other more serious problems in market= =20 design that relate to the underlying causes of the market meltdown. Separate from market power mitigation, California should pay its bills, rai= se=20 incremental prices to retail customers, and move as quickly as possible to= =20 operating a coordinated and efficient market with consistent pricing for al= l=20 that includes unit commitment, day-ahead scheduling, and real-time=20 balancing.? Although not a panacea, these steps would address immediate=20 problems and set the stage for longer-term initiatives to expand generation= =20 capacity, transmission infrastructure, and the reach of an efficient market= =20 to the western interconnected grid. William W. Hogan John F. Kennedy School of Government Harvard University 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1317 (o) 617-495-1635 (f) william_hogan@harvard.edu web page: www.whogan.com or http://ksgwww.harvard.edu/people/whogan 
I got a voicemail fro Ken.  He would be happy to meet with Freeman.  He is willing to work on other times, but suggested the following After 3:00 on May 2nd (right after Ken's speech to the RGA) or late the day before or in the morning of the second (to do this though he would have to cancel his speech to the Texas Governor's business council but he is willing to do this if necessary) His least preferred alternative in this general time frame would be early morning on the third. Jeff -- could you coordinate with Rosie to get the time and place nailed 
I'm still waiting for Davis' office to call.  The plan currently is for me to talk to him when and if he calls.  Sandi has been in touch with the governor's office. By the way, thanks for the summary of the California proceedings.  I talked to Hebert yesterday and he was duly impressed with your remarks ... I had to remind him that you worked on the right answers for California, not the abomination that's in place today. Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/13/2000 06:48 PM 
Preempt me, please! Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/13/2000 06:22 PM 
GOVERNOR DAVIS PRESSES FERC FOR ACTION ON WHOLESALE POWER RATES: Calls on Federal Regulators to Reduce Prices, Issue Refunds GOVERNOR DAVIS NAMES KAHN CHAIR OF THE GOVERNOR'S CLEAN ENERGY GREEN TEAM OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- PR00:238 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 12, 2000 GOVERNOR DAVIS PRESSES FERC FOR ACTION ON WHOLESALE POWER RATES Calls on Federal Regulators to Reduce Prices, Issue Refunds SAN DIEGO - At a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) hearing today in San Diego, Governor Gray Davis reiterated his call to federal regulators to intervene ""to the fullest extent possible"" to lower electricity prices in California. ""FERC bears responsibility to ensure that a workably competitive market exists before California consumers and California's economy are subjected to unconstrained, market-based electricity prices,"" said Governor Davis in a statement read by Energy Oversight Board Chairman Michael Kahn. ""Consequently, I renew my prior request that the Commission act with utmost speed to intervene to the fullest extent possible to restore wholesale prices to fair levels and to remedy harms that have resulted from the 
Thanks for the note.  I am forwarding it on to our analyst and associate recruiting program leaders.  We may have already filled the summer spots (we also cut  down the number  a bit this year to ensure a higher quality experience), but we will be out looking for a large number of permanent hires in the Fall. Severin Borenstein <borenste@Haas.Berkeley.EDU> 03/31/2001 06:00 PM 
Dear Steve: Jim Bushnell and I are teaching a course called ""Energy Market Strategies and Policies"" this semester.  The course is cross-listed between the Haas School of Business and the Energy & Resources Group at UC Berkeley.  The syllabus for the course is attached. We have 43 graduate students in the course, most pursuing a masters degree in business or energy & resources, though there are also a few PhD students.  These are very smart students -- many of whom already have experience in the energy industries -- and we believe the course puts them in a position to immediately contribute to any energy-related organization that they would join. Many of these students are interested in either summer or permanent employment starting as early as May.  If Enron has openings that you would like to advertise to these students, please send me the job description (or the URL for it)and I can forward it to the class list. Jim and I think this is a very strong class, and many of the students are interested in making a career in either the business or the public policy side of the energy industry.  We're hoping to provide the connections to help make sure they find the best job matches possible. Sincerely, Severin _________________________________________________________________ Severin Borenstein E.T. Grether Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy   Director Haas School of Business              U.C. Energy Institute University of California             2539 Channing Way Berkeley, CA 94720-1900              Berkeley, CA 94720-5180 (p) 510-642-3689                     (p) 510-642-5145 (f) 707-885-2508                     http://www.ucei.org Email: borenste@haas.berkeley.edu WWW: http://haas.berkeley.edu/~borenste - EnergyMarketsSyllabus.pdf 
He could have solved this problem in 20 minutes, right? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/25/2001 12:40 PM 
Steve, Mark and Meredith, Please find below some emails between EFET (European Federation of Energy Traders) and myself.  We have helped them to find out which German journalists the German gas incumbent, Ruhrgas, has sent to California this week.  We found out about that yesterday.  I have now passed on that list + some general PR recommendations and EFET will now take the lead on this (they will send out an EFET position paper on California and have a spokesperson available especially for California - he's not Enron!). Just wanted to make sure you are aware because it could be possible that people will come to us for further comment.  The general consensus now is that we then refer them to EFET. Thanks Eva 
Jan, Please  see below a summary of the journalists who will be returning this weekend from their trip to California courtesy of Ruhrgas. Up to you now to send them the EFET position paper on California.  Would suggest you try to get it on their desk by Monday morning latest, if possible.  Would also send it to those who have refused to go and other key contacts we have given to you.  Media seems to be keen to know EFET's position on this.  Let me know if you need translation of the personalised note that will accompany the position paper. Obviously, we will divert any requests we get to you. Will get their email addresses to you later so you can email it to them rather than fax it with the possibility they will get it too late. Good luck. Groet Eva 
Eva, I've finished my guerilla-PR-job, here are the results: Ruhrgas has invited the Nordrhein-Westfalen (region where Essen is located) -based correspondents of the national dailies and also the energy journalists of the most important business magazines. Journalists in Califonia: -Werner Sturbeck (FAZ - Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung) -Werner Jaspert (S_ddeutsche Zeitung) -Dr. J_rgen Frech (WAZ - Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung -Jochen Schuster (Focus) Journalists that had been invited but refused: -Dr. Andreas Wildhagen (Wirtschaftswoche) -Hans-Willy Bein (Financial Times Deutschland) -Die Welt I also got the information that Ruhrgas held a press conference yesterday in California. So we can expect the first articles on California tomorrow or latest on Monday. I also will do an additional internet monitoring (for example WAZ, which we don't read daily) this afternoon to see if there are already some articles. We should recommend EFET to send their statement not only to those journalists who have been on the press trip but to all key contacts. Most of the journalists I spoke to or colleagues from the newsdesk seem to be keen to know what EFET has to say about the California issue!!!!! Please let me know if you need further information! Best regards, Christina M_ller Cohn & Wolfe Public Relations GmbH & Co. KG Kleyerstrasse 25, D-60326 Frankfurt am Main Telefon (069) 7506 1503, Telefax (069) 7506 1528 christina_mueller@de.cohnwolfe.com www.cohnwolfe.de 
The conversation was very positive (Glynn did not know anything about it at first, but, looked into it and called Ken back Friday evening).  Glynn said they were including the amount owed in their negotiations over the price for the transmission assets and said they intended to pay all of their debts, including this one, as soon as they get paid.  He said that this weekk would be focussed on finalizing a deal for SCE given the threat of bankruptcy; the discussions would then turn to PG&E. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/14/2001 07:03 PM 
Steve: Jim mentioned that Ken Lay was trying to talk to Glynn today about getting the PX credit issue resolved.  Any progress made? Best, Jeff 
How about inserting the attached (after the explanation about the relationship between New Power and Enron)? Binky Davidson@EES 03/15/2001 05:35 PM 
Mark Muller sends the attached for your information and comments. 
Mark Muller sends the attached for your information and comments. 
I think we need some clear indication that with Hogan on the Board this is not going to turn into a diatribe about the benefits of LMP.  He's the most informed of the bunch and I doubt he would find a general work of interest (unless he can create a platform for his more detailed ideas).  If it stays general, I think the study is a good idea.  One topic area might be to explore how politicians mess up the basic idea of deregualtion and suggest that the process needs to be handled in a more objective (and pure) fashion. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/16/2001 10:54 AM 
choice Great points.  Teece---and the lion's share of the folks on the participants list---are advocates of a minimalist role for government, particularly where markets are a clear and preferably option, as in the case of electricity. That said, I think we're going to have to make a fundamental decision about what the goal of this ""study"" would be, which will determine, to a large degree, whether we choose to pursue it. I'll throw out for comment the notion that the study should be designed to serve one purpose:  to influence the policy decision currently under debate ""To de-regulate or not.""  As such, I wouldn't see issues like ""PJM or APX"" or ""competitive default supplier or not,"" or ""divest generation with vesting contracts or retain the assets"" being the focus. That debate over critically important implementation details, would seem to come in ""Round 2,"" once the initial debate over ""deregulate or not"" is won. To try to do both, i.e., resolve in the broad policy issue AND make the case for the specific, ""right"" implementation plan, would arguably bog the study down, perhaps interminably.  And it seems that time is of the essence in the current environment.  In addition, unless the fundamental policy issue is won--and won rather quickly--debating  implementation may be moot.  Of course, it will be impossible to avoid some level of dicussion on ""how to do it,"" but that would not be the emphasis. In sum, I'd suggest for comment that it only makes sense to proceed---particularly since time is of the essence---if we focus on the high level policy level question of ""to deregulate or not,"" and address implementation in a second, or follow up, study.  I think we should try to make a call on this swiftly, since the ""go/no go"" decision would seem to flow from resolution of this issue. Best, Jeff James D Steffes 03/16/2001 08:22 AM 
choice Jeff -- It would be helpful to get some feedback prior to starting to deal with the fundamental question related to direct access for smaller customers.  I would like to know Teece's perspective on the role of government in this marketplace.  In addition, I think that the paper must deal with the drawbacks of having mixed roles - utility default supply and competitive markets. Jim Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/15/2001 03:11 PM 
choice Greetings: As I've mentioned, I've been discussing with a group of academics (principally from UC Berkeley) the possibility of producing an analysis of why it makes sense to move forward toward de-regulation, and makes no sense to turn back to command-and-control regulation.  Clearly, we're at a fork in the policy road---move forward, or go back. I've (finally) gotten a proposal from the group.  It's attached.  Please take a look.  I'd like to distribute more widely internally for comment, but wanted to run it through a preliminary screen to guage whether folks think it would be useful before cluttering up folks' in-boxes with more emails to read.  Few points worth mentioning: The majority of the academics that would do the report are affiliated with LECG, Inc., the consulting group that I worked with prior to joing Enron. List also includes Dan McFadden, UC Berkeley nobel prize winner who wrote the recent op-ed piece in the WSJ. The list also includes Hogan and Joskow  and Borenstein.  We could certainly exclude these folks should we choose to go forward with the analysis. However, the goal is to produce a high level analysis, i.e., ""de-regulation is good and can work; command and control regulation is bad and we know that it does not work.""  Once the study is released (if it is pursued), the ""authors"" could tour the country, testifying before federal and state bodies to advocate the virtues of de-regulation and the pitfalls of reversing course.  The analysis would not be a debate over ""To Poolco, or not to Poolco, PJM, etc.""  In this way, including folks like Joskow and Hogan could offer the added benefit of creating a ""Nixon goes to China"" scenario.  Please take a look at the list of participants.  Again, we can add to and subtract from the list. Laura Tyson would be one of the two project leaders. (The other would be David Teece, Chairman of LECG.) None of the folks on the list occupies either extreme of the political spectrum.  It's a mix of D's and R's who are arguably centrist economist and strong believers in markets (I won't vouch for Joskow and Hogan). The idea would be to get a wide array of industry participants from across the country to support the project.  This is for two reasons:  1) the more diverse the group supporting the effort, the greater the credibility, and 2) they are asking for about $1 million to do the study. If you think it would be useful to pursue the study as part of our national campaign to minimize the damage created by California, I would like to start immediately to approach trade associations, companies, customers, etc. nationwide to garner support for the project. Let me know if you think the effort would be worthwhile.  Appreciate your comments. Best, Jeff 
It was not mentioned to me.  I'm copying rosie and vanessa to find out if this was a simple referral (in which case you should keep the work to a minimum -- return the call, but don't get distracted from your other efforts) or whether Ken is especially interested in this and wants us to follow through. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 03:54 PM 
Just got a call from a fellow named Jame Edgerly at the Enterprise Zone, Inc.  He told me that Ken Lay (through Ken's secretary Vanessa) referred me to him.  He is very interested in getting us to help him work with the Legislature to establish an ""Enterprise Zone"" energy tariff to encourage investment in California's Enterprice Zones.  Before I launch on the effort, just wanted to check in and see if this rings a bell with you.  Thanks. Best, Jeff 
I am attaching the FERC order and staff recommendations.  The order provides for $69 million in ""potential"" refunds (either pay up or provide cost justification).  Enron was not named as one of the 13 overcharging parties, but PGE was ($3.18 million).  It's not over yet, though.  The order deals only with Jan 01 and promises further orders regarding Dec 00 and benchmark prices through April 01.  The prices used to determine refunds were fairly high ($273/mwh based on gas prices, emissions costs and an assumed heat rate of over 16000). With respect to sales to California, we have concluded at least one short term sale and have talked with Cal Dept of Water Resources about longer term deals, but we were still struggling with credit issues, last I heard.  I'm copying Jeff Dasovich because I'm sure he has more up to date information. Mark Schroeder@ECT 03/11/2001 02:11 PM 
In the press, I saw two news stories that I wondered if we (Enron) had any role/hand in, and what was the offical ""spin"" in both cases.  1)  The FERC Order requiring something like 55-65 million dollars in refunds by generators (or did it include traders) for overcharging in California in December, if I recall my facts/news stories correctly, and 2) the reports of 40 companies entering into 10-year contracts with California (touted by Davis).  Was Enron a contracting party?  Do we think this is a good solution (I think I know the answer, but defer to your lead on this, so we stay on your message)?  thanks mcs 
As to whether long term contracting by Cal. is a good idea, the answer is somewhat mixed.  We were one of the early parties pointing out the problems with total reliance on the spot market and encouraging more forward contracting.  Given the utilities' precarious financial position there were two options: 1) outsource the default provider obligation to the market (this is what we prefer but there was no political support for it), or 2) have the state put its credit behind the purchases.  California is pursuing the latter, with CDWR prucahsing the utilities' requirements.  In the short term, we have criticized the state's plan because it contemplates state takeover of the grid; state participation in power plant financing, construction, and ownership; and they have not made it clear that CDWR really has the money to pay for all the purchases.  I am attaching text I have used as the base for a number of communications with policymakers. Mark Schroeder@ECT 03/11/2001 02:11 PM 
In the press, I saw two news stories that I wondered if we (Enron) had any role/hand in, and what was the offical ""spin"" in both cases.  1)  The FERC Order requiring something like 55-65 million dollars in refunds by generators (or did it include traders) for overcharging in California in December, if I recall my facts/news stories correctly, and 2) the reports of 40 companies entering into 10-year contracts with California (touted by Davis).  Was Enron a contracting party?  Do we think this is a good solution (I think I know the answer, but defer to your lead on this, so we stay on your message)?  thanks mcs 
I am attaching the FERC order and staff recommendations.  The order provides for $69 million in ""potential"" refunds (either pay up or provide cost justification).  Enron was not named as one of the 13 overcharging parties, but PGE was ($3.18 million).  It's not over yet, though.  The order deals only with Jan 01 and promises further orders regarding Dec 00 and benchmark prices through April 01.  The prices used to determine refunds were fairly high ($273/mwh based on gas prices, emissions costs and an assumed heat rate of over 16000). With respect to sales to California, we have concluded at least one short term sale and have talked with Cal Dept of Water Resources about longer term deals, but we were still struggling with credit issues, last I heard.  I'm copying Jeff Dasovich because I'm sure he has more up to date information. Mark Schroeder@ECT 03/11/2001 02:11 PM 
In the press, I saw two news stories that I wondered if we (Enron) had any role/hand in, and what was the offical ""spin"" in both cases.  1)  The FERC Order requiring something like 55-65 million dollars in refunds by generators (or did it include traders) for overcharging in California in December, if I recall my facts/news stories correctly, and 2) the reports of 40 companies entering into 10-year contracts with California (touted by Davis).  Was Enron a contracting party?  Do we think this is a good solution (I think I know the answer, but defer to your lead on this, so we stay on your message)?  thanks mcs 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Sorry that we haven't talked in some time.  I thought that you would want to take a look at some analysis we have recently completed with regard to the California Power Crisis.  You may find some of the analysis to be helpful.  Let me know if you have any questions. (See attached file: 10209 zxd414.ppt) +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | This message may contain confidential and/or privileged     | | information.  If you are not the addressee or authorized to | | receive this for the addressee, you must not use, copy,     | | disclose or take any action based on this message or any    | | information herein.  If you have received this message in   | | error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail | | and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.   | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ 
I talked to Hettie today.  It's unlikely that we are going to find time for Jeff and the Governor to talk (because of the Governor's schedule).  We'll try to set something up later.  In the meantime, the Governor should just sign the bill.  Of course, Hettie had already communicated this; the Gov's office acknowledged that the message was recieved but did not make a specific 
I am attaching several items that I hope you will find useful when you brief Chambers: A background document (which is a bit dated, but still useful). This is an internal document, so I would appreciate it if you would keep it confidential (though you are free to use the content in your own messages or documents). A basic outline of solutions. A summary of the Governor's recent executive orders. (It's another internal analysis.) I think these orders show a better understanding of the problems and solutions than we have seen before.  As we discussed on the phone, our biggest problem is inertia ... we don't have much time, many solutions have long lead times, and the political wheels grind slowly. Jeff Dasovich: please forward any specifics on the demand buy down proposal 
Attached is the ""pitch"" our sales representatives are presenting to customers in California, a list of customers and a Q&A. Karen - I am also faxing to your house in case these files are too large for you to download at home before you leave for California. Please call me with any questions. 713-667-8511 713-504-4338 713=345-7034 Peggy 
Thanks to everyone for their work on the Senate hearing.  There are a couple of follow-up items: Thanks to the Portland and Washington teams, Sen Wyden is very interested in identifying the kind of information we need from the ISO (and PX to the extent it's still relevant) to make the market work better.  We have written this up before, I think we just need to put it in letter form.  Alan -- please take the lead on this and get a draft to Linda.  I think we should identify the information and also prepare a letter for the Chairman (?) that could be sent to the FERC. Murkowski (the Committee Chairman) asked for an itemized list of things the fed should do to expedite siting as well as anything else we feel is necessary  to address the California crisis.  We have identified the need for open access across the nation, but he is looking for what can be done in the 2-4 month time frame.  Dave, I think your memo to me is a good start.  Sue -- could you please put those and any other suggestions in letter form and get them to Linda? Finally, Sen Feinstein asked all of the witnesses to ask their CEOs not to ""price gouge"" -- yes, that's what she said.  She appealed to everyone's community spirit and asked suppliers to forbear charging high prices while California struggles to fix its problems.  I think we should send a response from Ken.  Jeff -- please take a cut and get to Linda.  I think the basic messages should be:  we are actively working on solutions with California policymakers (forward contracting was our idea after all); we are actively pursuing demand reduction in the state, etc.  We should also explain the nature of our business and pick up on some of the other solutions we 
attachment Steven J Kean 01/21/2001 05:02 PM 
My proposed changes. 
A starting point for the California section of the Conference Call script. Please comment.  Thanks. 
My proposed changes. 
A starting point for the California section of the Conference Call script. Please comment.  Thanks. 
I think there is merit in pursuing this.  A couple of comments: It may be unduly complicated to get customers to provide the funding. =20 Perhaps we should focus on the banks instead.  The deal might be further=20 funding in exchange for legislative and regulatory concessions on rates,=20 transmission and generation siting and the rest of the items you outline. Rubin would be great to have, but having watched Summers in action I'm not= =20 sure we need another ex-treas.  Summers is superb, up-to-speed, and=20 apparently willing to work on this.  Linda -- how would Larry feel if we=20 brought in his ex-boss (I know they're buddies but does Summers really need= =20 the help?). Need to keep an eye on the ball for large customers-- many of whom are ours= . =20 they will continue to need some access to better rates.  Perhaps the propos= al=20 could be converted to cash in exchange for demand reductions. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/20/2001 10:54 PM =20 
ergy=20 Crisis 
ergy=20 Crisis Dean Tyson: It was a pleasure to see you again today. Phil, it was a pleasure to meet y= ou=20 and I look forward to working together.  Since time is of the essence, I=20 wanted to summarize where we left off at today=01,s meeting regarding Calif= ornia=01, s energy crisis.  That summary is attached.  I've also attached three=20 articles from the business section of today's Chronicle that arguably bolst= er=20 our arguments for adopting the approach that we discussed at today's meetin= g. Given the fact that the legislative process is moving rapidly, bankruptcy = is=20 a daily threat, and Dean Tyson will be attending the meetings in Davos, it= =20 appears that our window of opportunity is very small.  It seems that succes= s=20 requires a meeting of the principals by the end of the week, if not sooner.= =20 The chances of success are obviously limited, but I think that we agreed th= at=20 all concerned have nothing to lose and everything to gain by taking a shot.= =20 Your offer to help in the effort obviously increases the likelihood of=20 success and is greatly appreciated. =20 My apologies in advance if I have mischaracterized any of the points made a= t=20 the meeting.  It represents a =01&first cut,=018 it will undoubtedly change= as the=20 details get worked out, and I=01,m sure I=01,ve missed something.  So pleas= e don=01,t=20 hesitate to edit the draft. Please keep in mind that I have not had a chance to discuss this proposal= =20 internally.  As such, I can=01,t yet commit Enron to the specifics of the= =20 proposal.  But I=01,m confident that the company can support something akin= to=20 this structure and can let you and Phil know first thing Monday. In addition, given the political environment in California, Enron has playe= d=20 a constructive role by providing low-key, behind the scenes advice and=20 analysis to policy makers.  That approach seems preferable in this effort a= s=20 well. Finally, Dean Tyson, I mentioned that Linda Robertson heads-up our Washingt= on=20 D.C. office.  If she can help in any way, please don=01,t hesitate to let m= e=20 know.  Both of you should feel free to call me at home over the weekend to= =20 discuss things further.  My home phone is 415.621.8317. Best, Jeff 
Please send comments to Elizabeth ASAP. 
A starting point for the California section of the Conference Call script. Please comment.  Thanks. 
12:30 P.M. (NOONISH) ON SUNDAY, JAN.  21 
You need to be aware that we are in the process of selling the Wind Co.  Mark Metts and Amit Walya are working on this.  If the price changes under the QF contracts it would impact the sale.  Call Amit to discuss (345-5570). Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/21/2001 10:23 AM 
P.M. (NOONISH) ON SUNDAY, JAN.  21 
P.M. (NOONISH) ON SUNDAY, JAN.  21 An important conference call is scheduled for 12:30 p.m. (PST) on Sunday, Today, Jan 21 to discuss the status of legislative meetings on QF/SRAC matters. Call-In number is            888-422-7124 Particpant Code is          111756 Status Report After a marathon 12 hour meeting with Assemplyman Keeley, Senator Battin, QF Parties, and SCE, a Keeley sponsored ""deal"" was proposed at 3:30 a.m. this morning.  The crux of the deal is as follows: For renewables and non-gas fired QF, essentially ... 7.8 cents/kwh for delivered power for 5 years [""all in"", i.e. includes capacity and energy] 1.0 on losses no 'clawback' for wind resources which may have failed to meet fixed capacity obligations in the past Applies ""going forward"" (presumedly Feb. 1) For gas-fired QFs... 7.8 cents/kwh for five years, assuming gas is $5.60;  payment will increase/decrease tied to gas  (this assumes an IER of 9821) 1.0 on line losses 
I tinkered a bit more with the background doc. 
My comments Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/03/2001 12:37 PM 
I've had to spend a little time negotiating this AM with ENA and EES, but I'm confident that they'll be OK with this version. 
Here they are.  Please review and provide comments quickly.  I'd like to get this off to Kari ASAP.  Thanks. Jeff 
See suggestions Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/02/2001 05:28 PM 
Greetings: Attached is the draft.  I've attempted to capture everyone's comments.  The only piece that is not likely to go this evening is the piece providing comments on the Governor's specific proposals.  That will likely go first thing tomorrow morning.  You'll note that only one of the Governor's proposals currently has any comments attached to it.  Comments on the Governor's proposals are appreciated.  The remainder of the materials will go to the Governor's staff later this evening; so any and all comments on those portions are welcomed and appreciated.  Thanks to all for the assistance, particularly in light of the holiday. Best, Jeff 
See revisions.  Am also attaching the ""solutions document"" we left with the Governor.  I think we should follow that basic format and include the solutions set out there. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/02/2001 01:40 PM 
It could certainly use some doctoring, but it's getting there. I'm now shifting my focus to the ""informal advisory group"" on procurement. 
Minor edits as shown.  Otherwise, looks good. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 01/02/2001 04:20 PM 
Use this file:  I have dated the forward price curve chart so that it is clear it is prices as of today. GAC Alan Comnes 12/22/2000 01:39 PM 
Steve, Ginger: The first file has the charts and data you requested. I am also forwading some charts on price caps.  You may be interested in the charts on California Stage 1/2/3 emergencies. Alan Comnes 
Steve, Ginger: The first file has the charts and data you requested. I am also forwading some charts on price caps.  You may be interested in the charts on California Stage 1/2/3 emergencies. Alan Comnes 
Scott sent this to Marty, but I assume you already have had communications with him about this. 
In case you didn't see. 
Marty.  This is a summary of our message from this morning for you to send on or discuss with Keene.  I hope this is helpful.  Scott What's important Give solvency to the utilities by guaranteeing no banckruptcy against the generation assets of the utilities.  Guarantees to be recovered, if needed, through surcharges over 10 years.  This should give the process time for thoughtful solutions.  Ending the rate freeze now will give the utilities an undeserved windfall (3.5b alone related to nuclear assets in year 2001). There should be thoughtful process to determine: i) how to keep deregulation going, ii) how existing generation assets should be used, iii) what are the value of existing assets, iv) when is the appropriate time for customers to be exposed to the market, and v) what kind of market structure would be appropriate going forward. Customers should not be dumped into the market, now or in the next year, while it is extremely illiquid due to many errors of the utilities. There should not be retroactive rate making (the negative ctc should be paid until at least the rate freeze is ended) All customers should be treated equally with respect to existing generation assets that they paid for for the past 4-30 years. There should be a special hearing called to debate demand side prospects (ie. curtailment etc.) 
The Governor cancelled the meeting at the last minute.  Apparently, he was trying to schedule a meeting with Clinton and our meeting conflicted, so we were bumped.  We are trying to set a new time.  I will share with the Governor's energy advisor the information and recommendations all of you helped put together.  Thanks 
The attachment. 
comments/suggestions 
We met with Gov Davis on Thursday evening in LA.  In attendance were Ken Lay, the Governor, the Governor's staff director (Kari Dohn) and myself.  The gov. spent over an hour and a half with us covering our suggestions and his ideas.  He would like some additional thoughts from us by Tuesday of next week as he prepares his state of the state address for the following Monday. Attached to the end of this memo is a list of solutions we proposed (based on my discussions with several of you) as well as some background materials Jeff Dasovich and I prepared.  Below are my notes from the meeting regarding our proposals, the governor's ideas, as well as my overview of the situation based on the governor's comments: Overview:   We made great progress in both ensuring that he understands that we are different from the generators and in opening a channel for ongoing communication with his administration. The gov does not want the utilities to go bankrupt and seems predisposed to both rate relief (more modest than what the utilities are looking for) and credit guarantees.  His staff has more work to do on the latter, but he was clearly intrigued with the idea.  He talked mainly in terms of raising rates but not uncapping them at the retail level.  He also wants to use what generation he has control over for the benefit of California consumers, including utility-owned generation (which he would dedicate to consumers on a cost-plus basis) and excess muni power (which he estimates at 3000MW).  He foresees a mix of market oriented solutions as well as interventionist solutions which will allow him to fix the problem by '02 and provide some political cover. Our proposals:  I have attached the outline we put in front of him (it also included the forward price information several of you provided).  He seemed interested in 1) the buy down of significant demand, 2) the state setting a goal of x000 MW of new generation by a date certain, 3) getting the utilities to gradually buy more power forward and 4) setting up a group of rate analysts and other ""nonadvocates"" to develop solutions to a number of issues including designing the portfolio and forward purchase terms for utilities. He was also quite interested in examining the incentives surrounding LDC gas purchases.   As already mentioned, he was also favorably disposed to finding some state sponsored credit support for the utilities. His ideas:  The gov read from a list of ideas some of which were obviously under serious consideration and some of which were mere ""brainstorming"". Some of these ideas would require legislative action. State may build (or make build/transfer arrangements) a ""couple"" of generation plants.  The gov feels strongly that he has to show consumers that they are getting something in return for bearing some rate increases.  This was a frequently recurring theme. Utilities would sell the output from generation they still own on a cost-plus basis to consumers. Municipal utilties would be required to sell their excess generation in California. State universities (including UC/CSU and the community colleges) would more widely deploy distributed generation. Expand in-state gas production. Take state lands gas royalties in kind. negotiate directly with tribes and state governments in the west for addtional gas supplies. Empower an existing state agency to approve/coordinate power plant maintenance schedules to avoid having too much generation out of service at any one time. Condition emissions offsets on commitments to sell power longer term in state. Either eliminate the ISO or sharply curtail its function -- he wants to hear more about how Nordpool works(Jeff- someone in Schroeder's group should be able to help out here). Wants to condition new generation on a commitment to sell in state.  We made some headway with the idea that he could instead require utilities to buy some portion of their forward requirements from new in-state generation thereby accomplishing the same thing without using a command and control approach with generators. Securitize uncollected power purchase costs. To dos: (Jeff, again I'd like to prevail on you to assemble the group's thoughts and get them to Kari) He wants to see 5 year fixed power prices for peak/ off-peak and baseload -- not just the 5 one year strips. He wants comments on his proposals by Tuesday. He would like thoughts on how to pitch what consumers are getting out of the deal. He wants to assemble a group of energy gurus to help sort through some of the forward contracting issues. Thanks to everyone for their help.  We made some progress today. 
We are now scheduled to meet with the gov. tomorrow in LA at 3:00.  I'll let 
27th/28th 
This is very good work.  You make all the points we need to make without spraining anything in the process.  You have been doing a superb job under very difficult circumstances. On another note:  I don't know if you received my page, but the meeting with Davis was cancelled so I flew back to Houston.  We are trying to get another time, perhaps as early as this week.  Davis did meet with Greenspan and Summers, both of whom we had briefed extensively. 
27th/28th You're right, Sue.  Rates can't go up w/out declaring the rate freeze over in some fashion---trying to finesse it.  Thanks very much for the comments. Harry also had a good comment---don't specify the amount of rate increase in our comments; rather note that the rate increase needs to be well-reasoned and based on facts and evidence.  Will make that change. Susan J Mara 12/26/2000 06:43 PM 
27th/28th Jeff, This looks good.  It comes across as moderate in tone-- although probably no one else will ask to leave the rate freeze in place. I have a legal question -- Under AB 1890, I don't see anyway that the CPUC can raise rates without ending the rate freeze first.  Am I missing something? So, how is it clear that the CCPUC can raise the rates on Feb 1? It's clear,however,  that once the retained assets are valued that the rates can be changed. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 12/26/2000 01:15 PM 
Attached is a draft of the talking points for the Commission's hearings.  Few points: Our time is likely to be limited to 5-10 minutes. Mike Day, our outside counsel, will make the presentation on our behalf. Mike Day is fleshing out the legal details of our presentation and he will forward that along for folks review later today. Comments can be forwarded to me via email, pager (888.916.7184), voicemail (415.782.7822), or home (415.621.8317). We will finalize the message points on tomorrow's daily call (10 AM CST). The call in number is 800.713.8600.  Code is 80435. The Commission's hearings begin tomorrow at 10 AM (PST). 
The Governor cancelled the meeting at the last minute.  Apparently, he was trying to schedule a meeting with Clinton and our meeting conflicted, so we were bumped.  We are trying to set a new time.  I will share with the Governor's energy advisor the information and recommendations all of you Sent by: Maureen McVicker@ENRON 
I believe we need to prepare a letter to key decision makers regarding=20 western energy markets and the actions that we believe should and should no= t=20 be taken by policy makers.  I=01,ve recently spoken to rep from DOE, the ca= l=20 senators=01, offices and FERC and am concerned that they continue to labor = under=20 misconceptions about how the market is operating and what policy decisions= =20 make sense.  I have conveyed Enron=01,s point of view to each of these=20 representatives.  Several have asked for a letter and I believe it would be= =20 helpful to capture some of our views in writing. =20 Here are the key points I believe we need to make: ? we have a serious crisis in the energy markets in the western United Stat= es. ? some of the policy reactions to this crisis have been helpful but many ha= ve=20 been harmful ? every action the govt. takes in the crisis situation should be (1) inform= ed=20 by discussions with market participants (and not simply taken on faith from= =20 the utilities or the CAL ISO), (2) should be measured against this simple= =20 standard: does the action actually increase supply or actually decrease=20 demand; if not, then it=01,s not helping. ? we should list examples of both the short term and long term remedies tha= t=20 we believe satisfy this standard (e.g. in the short term things like having= =20 the ISO buy demand reductions, providing government guarantees for ISO=20 purchases or having California lift emissions limits) and listing actions= =20 that do not meet this standard (e.g. price caps orders to sell power to the= =20 CAL ISO). ? list the actions that we have taken to increase supply or reduce demand. ? make ourselves available to discuss any of these matters. I think we need to try to get such a letter prepared by the end of the day= =20 today. =20 I am sending you a copy of the letter we sent to the commission regarding= =20 price caps and a letter El Paso sent regarding gas markets yesterday.  I am= =20 asking Paul Kaufman to take the lead on pulling this together or to designa= te=20 someone to pull a draft together. 
Looks good.  I think you implicitly say this, but I think you should make it more explicit: The continued growth of the new economy is threatened by our electricity infrastructure more than anything else. The high tech industry requires market driven solutions to reliability and pricing not the old style command and control regulated monopoly approach. Let's start getting the word out! Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 09/26/2000 02:06 PM 
Attached is a first rough cut.  Work continues but wanted to distribute for feedback.  All is welcome and appreciated. 
Eliz -- I need your group to put together a search which captures the comments of PG&E and Edison officials in trade press, anlyst reports, and speeches which would be inconsistent with the idea that they can now recover their shortfall.  In other words, when they were trying to get AB 1890 passed, when they were fighting Proposition 9, when they floated their ""rate reduction bonds"" and when they talked to analysts and rating agencies I'm sure they assumed that they would live under the rate freeze and take the risk of stranded cost recovery whithin the statutory deadline. 
CC list suppressed... September 27, 2000 California Utilities' LossesOn Electricity Pose Risk By REBECCA SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL California's two biggest utilities are losing so much money buying electricity in the state's deregulated market that they have run up deficits equivalent to half their net worth in just four months. If the cost of wholesale power continues to exceed the price these utilities are allowed to bill their customers, as currently seems likely, they could become technically insolvent sometime next year. That would put pressure on regulators to orchestrate a multibillion-dollar public bailout, similar to the ""too big to fail'' response that in the past pushed governments to rescue banks. Such a scenario is quietly being discussed by bond-rating concerns that recently reduced their credit outlooks for Pacific Gas & Electric Co., a unit of San Francisco-based PG&E Corp., and Southern California Edison, a unit of Edison International of Rosemead, Calif. Bond- rating concerns say they aren't sure how much additional debt can be borne by the two affected utilities before they will have difficulty paying their bills. Probe of California Power Prices Begins, but New Plants Aren't Seen as Solution (Sept. 11) Los Angeles Utility Is Benefitting, Surprisingly, From Deregulation (Sept. 6) California Lawmakers Vote to Limit Electricity Costs (Sept. 1) ""If this is just a seasonal aberration, the utilities can get through it,"" says Lori Woodland, analyst for Fitch IBCA. ""If it goes on for six or nine months, it's a very serious situation."" Adds A.J. Sabatelle, senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service Inc.: ""At some 
sooner 
Thanks..... what's a BEEP? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/02/2000 05:53 PM 
I think the presentation looks good.  In the meeting itself I think you should go heavy on the argument that it makes no sense for Sempra shareholders to be in a commodity market as a regulated entity -- the ""heads they win tails you lose"" argument. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/13/2000 06:11 PM 
Attached for your review is a rough cut at slides we're preparing for the meeting with Sempra next Thursday.  Thoughts and comments are appreciated. Please disregard korny title. 
Has anyone talked with Tim B about what Larcamp said -- ie the soft cap only applies to PX and ISO bids and not to any bilateral contracts including bilateral fwd contracts? 
Just to pile on with the issues, I will add a few thoughts of my own for issues that we might want to consider in our November 20 comments. Re: the application of the price cap to only PX and ISO, Commissioner Massey is not totally on board.  He specifically asked about capping the forward market.  He raised the idea that he had gotten from the San Diego hearing that there be an accepted forward contract for a specified timeframe (18-24 months) and specified rate, and that all loads must buy a minimum percentage of their needs from this contract. A staffer (Don Gelinas) asked whether the forward/bilateral market (presumably uncapped) could take care of investment recovery so that generation not be cancelled in California. Dynegy and other marketers raised the issue of the test to be used by the Commission in reviewing transactions above the soft cap.  Specifically, what is opportunity cost?  As long as the test is not known until after the fact, there will be lack of secuity selling into the California and greater incentive to sell elsewhere. Hobbs from Williams raised the possibility that if the Commission does not eliminate the soft cap (his preferred approach), that the cap should be temporary and escalating and there should be limited time for raising issues and retaining the refund liability (he suggested that the refund liability be only for one month). Many, especially the utilities, raised their position that the Commission should not institute penalties only on the load.  They claimed this was one-sided and suggested if penalties were required, they needed to be applied to the supply side as well.  They also argued that the load could not meet the 5% test. Massey had a concern at the end of the day that the Commission's encouragement of forward contracts will be stymied by the CPUC by their authority in reviewing prudence of the utilities' purchases. Larcamp asked at the end of the day for information on the cost of generation before deregulation - normalized for gas prices and emmission prices of today.  The marketer on the panel added that we would need to include stranded costs. There was almost no support for the single price auction in California. The California politicians argued that the ISO Board structure needed to be changed, but that California had jurisdiction to change it, not FERC.  A Court battle was threatened. Steven J Kean 11/13/2000 08:51 AM 
There are a few other issues we need to look into: Larcamp told Hartsoe and I after the meeting that FERC may clarify that the price caps and reporting obligations apply only to bids into the PX and ISO -- ie no bilateral transaction will be subject to the requirements.  He asked if knowing this would change any of our views (esp peaking plants, though I suspect it's already too late for that).  My gut reaction is that so long as the market continues to clear through the centralized exchanges this ""exemption"" for bilateral transactions won't matter much, but let's think it through.  Is EOL or APX an alternative? Massey specifically asked us to address forward markets in our comments. Specifically, ""has FERC done everything it can to encourage forward market development?""  In addition to any other points we might make, I think we should argue that ""PJMing"" the market won't facilitate and may even hinder forward market development.  Also, we should advocate actions by FERC that take away second-guessing by the CPUC in order to reduce utility fears about contracting forward. We have to give the Commission a way out on price caps.  We need to think through whether there is something we can live with here, or we should take the approach I took in my testimony:  FERC should encourage the state to provide rate protection for selected customer classes by putting those requirements up for bid (ie get the utility out of the commodity business as much as possible). Finally, on governence issues we should argue for a narrowe role for the ISO as a way of diffusing the emotional governence debate.  Analogy:  if the ISO is simply the air traffic controller all parties will simply be interested in retaining the most technically competent people (not hiring or appointing their lackies or friends).  So long as the ISO has a role in setting prices, acquiring supplies or running the market, it is destined to be controversial and highly politicized.  Those functions should be left to the market. Mary Hain@ECT 11/10/2000 11:13 AM 
The Governor cancelled the meeting at the last minute.  Apparently, he was trying to schedule a meeting with Clinton and our meeting conflicted, so we were bumped.  We are trying to set a new time.  I will share with the Governor's energy advisor the information and recommendations all of you helped put together.  Thanks 
It was not mentioned to me.  I'm copying rosie and vanessa to find out if this was a simple referral (in which case you should keep the work to a minimum -- return the call, but don't get distracted from your other efforts) or whether Ken is especially interested in this and wants us to follow through. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 03:54 PM 
Just got a call from a fellow named Jame Edgerly at the Enterprise Zone, Inc.  He told me that Ken Lay (through Ken's secretary Vanessa) referred me to him.  He is very interested in getting us to help him work with the Legislature to establish an ""Enterprise Zone"" energy tariff to encourage investment in California's Enterprice Zones.  Before I launch on the effort, just wanted to check in and see if this rings a bell with you.  Thanks. Best, Jeff 
It was not mentioned to me.  I'm copying rosie and vanessa to find out if this was a simple referral (in which case you should keep the work to a minimum -- return the call, but don't get distracted from your other efforts) or whether Ken is especially interested in this and wants us to follow through. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 03/12/2001 03:54 PM 
Just got a call from a fellow named Jame Edgerly at the Enterprise Zone, Inc.  He told me that Ken Lay (through Ken's secretary Vanessa) referred me to him.  He is very interested in getting us to help him work with the Legislature to establish an ""Enterprise Zone"" energy tariff to encourage investment in California's Enterprice Zones.  Before I launch on the effort, just wanted to check in and see if this rings a bell with you.  Thanks. Best, Jeff 
Heads up.  This is not to be discussed in advance out side of Enron, but you guys need to know.  If there are ways we can be helpful, call Carolyn Green to discuss. 
This will touch off a firestorm.  Diane is doing a good job, retaining McNally Temple in CA and even getting some message development help from our old friends at Public Strategies in Austin.  I'll stay on top of it. 
Attached is the proposed press release, which includes input from Rebecca, Cole and Neil.  We are tentatively planning to issue the release Monday , October 11, but in case word leaks to the media from Cole's meetings with local landowners starting tomorrow, we may need to issue this week.  With that in mind, would you please provide me any comments on the attached document by the end of the day tomorrow, October 6. Please note that this project has received tremendous local resistance to date, so we are quoting Cole and adding much more information about the local benefits to try to address these issues.  We are drafting a Q&A document and key message points for use with local and national media and the investor audience. 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISTRIBUTE Steve Kean would like your comments on this email as soon as possible. Thanks. 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISTRIBUTE Steve Kean would like your comments on this email as soon as possible. Thanks. 
CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISTRIBUTE Steve Kean would like your comments on this email as soon as possible. Thanks. 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISTRIBUTE Steve Kean would like your comments on this email as soon as possible. Thanks. 
per my voicemail 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1777 
should be over at 11:30. 
2:30 - 3:30  Jim Ciconni - Enron 4:45 Fly to Houston 
John Scoblick doing this. 
Stan Broussard 3-5468 
Paul Jacarty Andy Keleman Jack Heath Jeff Brockmeyer 1-800-348-4825 2760 -- Andy Fastow Janine Migden 
Response to Tarpey on Schnitzer/Tierney (303)575-6491 Thorn--Linda Breathitt Mont Hoyt 
I'm afraid we have our work cut out for us.  We have been working the proces at the state and federal level in the past couple of weeks.  I continue to believe (hope) Susan J Mara 08/11/2000 11:56 AM 
I heard you've been raising a ruckus about our activities on the price caps -- asking us to do more.  Thanks.  I feel as if I have been a voice in the wilderness for the past six months when I was trying to get people to pay attention to the bad things happening in CA and warning that the problems (mainly a threat of reregulation) will spread elsewhere. 
Oops. My computer sent the message before I was finished.  I continue to hope that there is more opportunity than risk in this for us.  Price volatility is in the news like never before and our main product is price risk management. I know that the inquiries are up, I hope EES and ENA can get some sales out of it.  More utilities have been approaching TNPC, EES and ENA about taking over their merchant functions.  On the policy side, we are working the issue on both a state and federal level.  Whether this country does anything meaningful to deal with the current crisis comes donw to one person ... Linda Breathitt.  Ken Lay spoke with Secy Richardson and Sen Schumer about proposing rulemaking initiatives to FERC.  We are working the RTO process hard elsewhere in the country and coming up with messages to arm our remaining allies around the country.   THis is the biggest time for us on this issue since the very beginnings in California and New Hampshire.  In the current panic, however, we will be decimated if we are associated only with a move to keep price caps from going into effect (I saw your message to Mona). I am going to read the comments next, but I start off thinking we need to avoid running headlong into the price cap movement; we may be better off trying to co-opt the movement to get broader reform. Hang in there. Susan J Mara 08/11/2000 11:56 AM 
I heard you've been raising a ruckus about our activities on the price caps -- asking us to do more.  Thanks.  I feel as if I have been a voice in the wilderness for the past six months when I was trying to get people to pay attention to the bad things happening in CA and warning that the problems (mainly a threat of reregulation) will spread elsewhere. 
The plan was to hit the issue twice -- once in the short format of Ebiz and at greater length in the longer format of the October issue of Enron Business.  Please let Paul know. 
Just as a matter of interest, I looked up this guy and he's in London, not in the US. 
Please go ahead with preparation of the talking points.  I'll give Ken a heads up. 
I agree w/ chris's recommendation- you too? 
At his request, I met Lee Sachs, Assistant Treasury Secretary, who had requested the meeting after a brief conversation recently.  Lee said that senior-level negotiations led by Secretary Summers were initiated last week between the CFTC and SEC and that progress was being made on the single stock futures issue (the major issue postponing movement of the legislation). As you know, the House completed committee work on HR 4541 before it recessed.  The bill will now is pending before the Rules Committee where differences will be worked out between the three different Committee versions (Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking).  The Senate Agriculture Committee passed out the Senate version in July.  However, the bill is not moving quickly in the Senate due to Senator Phil Gramm's desire to see significant changes made to the legislation (not directly related to our energy language). Last week at the Republican Convention, I asked the Senator about the bill and he said they were working on it, but much needs to be changed for his support.  More telling perhaps, were Wendy Gramm's comments that she would rather the current bill die if a better bill can be passed next year. What this means is that we must, at the least, remove Senator Gramm's opposition to the bill to move the process and more importantly seek to gain his support of the legislation. Lee Sachs message was just that.  I told Lee that we shared his desire to move the legislation as long as it contains a full exclusion for all non-agriculture commodities (including metals).  He said that we would have a difficult time defending the metals provision politically. But, Lee said  ""we 
Background information.  I'd like to talk to Ken about making the call. . . I'll see him at Exec comm today. 
I agree w/ chris's recommendation- you too? 
At his request, I met Lee Sachs, Assistant Treasury Secretary, who had requested the meeting after a brief conversation recently.  Lee said that senior-level negotiations led by Secretary Summers were initiated last week between the CFTC and SEC and that progress was being made on the single stock futures issue (the major issue postponing movement of the legislation). As you know, the House completed committee work on HR 4541 before it recessed.  The bill will now is pending before the Rules Committee where differences will be worked out between the three different Committee versions (Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking).  The Senate Agriculture Committee passed out the Senate version in July.  However, the bill is not moving quickly in the Senate due to Senator Phil Gramm's desire to see significant changes made to the legislation (not directly related to our energy language). Last week at the Republican Convention, I asked the Senator about the bill and he said they were working on it, but much needs to be changed for his support.  More telling perhaps, were Wendy Gramm's comments that she would rather the current bill die if a better bill can be passed next year. What this means is that we must, at the least, remove Senator Gramm's opposition to the bill to move the process and more importantly seek to gain his support of the legislation. Lee Sachs message was just that.  I told Lee that we shared his desire to move the legislation as long as it contains a full exclusion for all non-agriculture commodities (including metals).  He said that we would have a difficult time defending the metals provision politically. But, Lee said  ""we 
We'll have the usual macroeconomic update from Larry Lindsay and Gavyn Davies, the domestic political update from Bill Kristol and some presentations from Gary Hamel and others focussing on Enron NetWorks. James M Bannantine@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/10/2000 02:30 PM 
Steve, What is the agenda for this advisory council meeting? Jim 
Balboa and PGE filing - Cancelled for the time being - per Vanessa Bob - 
See attached WSJ article, particularly the last paragraph.  The message is: there has not been enough deregulation;  the government is still very much in the way.  California is a perfect example:  the market has responded to demand increases with thousands of megawatts of new generation, but state and local officials have not sited them, and companies like Enron are offering price protection, but utilities are not allowed to take advantage. 
Attached is an article about deregulation, price volatility, California power issues and how EES and other energy management type of companies are helping with solve these problems. Attached is an article about how PG&E is offering incentives to its larger customers in California that which asks them to use less energy, in turn the customers are guaranteed to be blackout free. There is a little controversy over this issue because the incentive is not offered to small business or residents. 
You are invited to join them for lunch. 
Have you solicited comments fromo EES? 
passcode 3000, you are the host 
Reed -- USAir 1062 arr. 10:02 Anthony Duenner -- 6235 Mark Muller Darrel Dunson -- 602-492-8570 Distribution list, labels, & copying Craig Goodman (Equitible Re 202333-0311(h) 
I believe we should back Massey as well.  Who do we weigh in with now? Joe Hartsoe@ENRON 08/15/2000 08:27 AM 
Steve/Rick/Jim  ---  Talked to John Anderson yesterday.  He had just gotten off the phone with Massey.  Massey believes Linda B.  is spending time at the White House lobbying to be Chair.   Have we decided whether to back either and if so which?  I would prefer backing Massey.  Thoughts?   JOE 202.466.9150 
Joe, As you are probably aware, Jim Hoecker is considering leaving FERC relatively soon.  The President will then name a new Chairman.  Bill Massey is quite interested in receiving the nomination. Please call to discuss. John 
fyi 
Probably not.  Let's communicate Breathitt's interest to Bone and stay out of it for now. Richard Shapiro 08/16/2000 08:42 AM 
Is this the right time to weigh ? Steven J Kean 08/16/2000 06:56 AM 
I believe we should back Massey as well.  Who do we weigh in with now? Joe Hartsoe@ENRON 08/15/2000 08:27 AM 
Steve/Rick/Jim  ---  Talked to John Anderson yesterday.  He had just gotten off the phone with Massey.  Massey believes Linda B.  is spending time at the White House lobbying to be Chair.   Have we decided whether to back either and if so which?  I would prefer backing Massey.  Thoughts?   JOE 202.466.9150 
Joe, As you are probably aware, Jim Hoecker is considering leaving FERC relatively soon.  The President will then name a new Chairman.  Bill Massey is quite interested in receiving the nomination. Please call to discuss. John 
Cynthia that you could start meetings at 10:30. 
Lou -- Dist Gen issue LEFF Nicki Daw -- 011-44-171-316-5457 9/25 - Cy knows to hold off on scheduling more meetings until further notice. Senator Bumpers, with Harry McPherson - 2:30 3:30 Senator Crapo Cynthia will do other meetings, trying for Pallone, Gorton, Grams. 
John Anderson PTC/NERC Brad Petzold 
Thanks for the note and congratulations.  Sorry we didn't get a chance to talk before you left.  But, I'm still here; give me a call when you get a chance - 1586. 
I just wanted to send you a quick note to let you know that I'm outta here! Today is my last day in the office here at Azurix, and in the coming months, I will start in a new position as SVP in the LNG development group at El Paso Energy.  This happened very quickly, and I wanted to make sure that I let everyone know before I left. I don't have any contact information yet for my new job, but if you want to reach me, you can do so at RobBrnglsn@aol.com or at 713-664-7478. I enjoyed working with all of you during the past five years at Enron / Azurix, and I wish you all of the best. Take care. Rob Bryngelson PS -- There is a happy hour tonight at Scudeiros on Dallas Street (just west of the Met Garage) beginning around 5:00.  If you can make it, please come! 
Put FH on AAE retainer Bd Meeting on Sun in Bd Rm at 8:00am Mary Kay -- posi'n on TW: ROW issues; call Leslie 
Steve, Rod and Elyse - Just wanted to confirm our meeting on Tuesday Aug 29th from 1:30 -2:30 to discuss Uof H's endowment proposal.  We will meeting Rod's office EB4054 I look forward to seeing you all there. Sincerely, Traci Traci Warner Enron Broadband Services, Inc. Phone (713) 853-3242 Cell (713) 705-7201 
be in a conference room to be determined. 
Dan Leff also setting up other meeting with wholesale, retail, and gov't affairs people with RW Beck.Rates discussion - Rebecca knows you won't be 
As I promised this morning at the executive committee meeting, below are some talking points for your use. Overall message:  the market is working, regulation is not. In California, peak demand rose by 10% over the last 4 years while new capacity grew by only 2%.  But, as you would expect, the market responded by proposing 8,000MW of new generation - - more than enough to offset the peak demand growth.  The regulatory process, at both the state and local level, has failed to site this new generation.  The problem is regulation, not deregulation. When San Diego customers began experiencing the effects of higher prices, Enron responded with a fixed price which would have shielded San Diego customers from price volatility and provided prices below their current summer levels (Enron's price was about $55/MWH).  After publication of Enron's offer, nine other companies made offers.  Again, the market responded where regulation failed.  San Diego has not accepted any of these offers because of regulatory/legislative restrictions on its ability to buy outside of the PX (i.e. the spot market). In markets where siting is easier, suppliers have moved to build additional generation.  Enron built 3 plants in response to the 1998 price spikes. Those plants were planned, sited and built in less that 12 months - - in time for the summer of 1999.  Where regulatory hurdles are lower, the market responds. The solution to current pricing and reliability issues is more competition not reregulation.  Policy makers should: Open the transmission grid so that power can get from where it is to where it is needed. Expedite interconnection of new generation. Expedite siting of new facilities. Give customers a choice, so that they have better access to demand side solutions. Also attached is a more detailed discussion of California, prepared by Jeff Dasovich of our San Francisco office. 
Committee on Regional Electric Power Cooperation, in Tempe, AZ 
I've made some changes (shown in bold).  Bracketed text indicates a deletion . Jeannie Mandelker@ECT 08/18/2000 05:34 PM 
Steve -- great guidance. Cynthia -- hope we're in time. Jeff -- the fifth paragraph has some supply/demand figures for the early part of this week that I heard but can't track down the written source. Any suggestions? Please review and don't hesitate to call me this weekend. Best bet is home number -- 914-736-9504 or cell phone -- 914-318-1568. Jeannie 
Reminder for Feedback 
In my interview I stressed that a big part of the communication problem is the narrow and impermanent nature of the information about what's going on at Enron.  Narrow because for every significant activity there are only a few who are in the loop and ""impermanent"" because very little information is committed to writing (most of it is exchanged in person or over the phone). This is, I believe, what lies at the heart of complaints about cross-department communication.  We now have some solutions emerging -- software that enables more people to record and post information in HTML format on company intranet sites.  I suspect that using such tools will face two obstacles: learning how to use them (ie there's a huge need for training) and making it part of our culture as a knowledge/learning organization Richard Amabile 08/18/2000 05:20 PM 
Reminder for Feedback This is a reminder that we would like your feedback/input on the items mentioned below regarding the Computer Based Communications Training Initiative.  Please respond by the close of business Monday, August 21 otherwise we will need to move ahead with the responses received by that time. Dick Amabile 
As agreed in our V&V meeting today I have attached two items for your review: 1. A list of those who have been interviewed or have been part of a focus group on this subject. The input from individuals on this list will be the basis for developing the 5-7 key scenarios that will be a part of the training.  Please let me know if you feel we should include more people from your unit to insure that your unit's unique circumstances are appropriately taken into account.  If so, let us know either their names or how you would like them to be identified. Some of the individuals on this list will be contacted as Subject Matter Experts to help provide real Enron contexts for the scenarios as they are further developed. 2. A list of the ""first draft"" objectives for the program and 10 possible scenarios. Since we will only be able to have a total of about 5-7 scenarios in the final version, identify the 5 - 7 on this list of high level scenario ideas that will have the most impact on improving communications and the most applicability to a range of managers across the Enron organization.  Any other feedback you can provide on the objectives or scenarios would be greatly appreciated. We are seeking to move forward with the development of scenarios by the beginning of next week.  Therefore, if you could provide your feedback on both of the items above by Friday, August 18th, it would be greatly appreciated. Dick Amabile 
Reminder for Feedback 
My message cut off...  The conclusion is that while we continue to need to address the kinds of issues laid out in your recommnedations, we need to look at solutions which may go deeper to adress our communications problems .. . solutions which have become available only recently.  Why not have these guys focus on an online training program to both teach people how to make information available and accessible (eg by recording information and updating on the intranet) and demonstrating the importance of this activity to the success of the organization. I think you and your team have done a fine job dealing with the traditional (and perhaps largely insoluble problems) that this group wants to take on.  I am pessimistic that the program outlined below will provide anything other than marginal improvements.   I am somewhat optimistic, though, that we may be able to bypass many of these problems (and get to the heart of what people are really complaining about in the survey) by instituting real knowledge management at Enron. Richard Amabile 08/18/2000 05:20 PM 
Reminder for Feedback This is a reminder that we would like your feedback/input on the items mentioned below regarding the Computer Based Communications Training Initiative.  Please respond by the close of business Monday, August 21 otherwise we will need to move ahead with the responses received by that time. Dick Amabile 
As agreed in our V&V meeting today I have attached two items for your review: 1. A list of those who have been interviewed or have been part of a focus group on this subject. The input from individuals on this list will be the basis for developing the 5-7 key scenarios that will be a part of the training.  Please let me know if you feel we should include more people from your unit to insure that your unit's unique circumstances are appropriately taken into account.  If so, let us know either their names or how you would like them to be identified. Some of the individuals on this list will be contacted as Subject Matter Experts to help provide real Enron contexts for the scenarios as they are further developed. 2. A list of the ""first draft"" objectives for the program and 10 possible scenarios. Since we will only be able to have a total of about 5-7 scenarios in the final version, identify the 5 - 7 on this list of high level scenario ideas that will have the most impact on improving communications and the most applicability to a range of managers across the Enron organization.  Any other feedback you can provide on the objectives or scenarios would be greatly appreciated. We are seeking to move forward with the development of scenarios by the beginning of next week.  Therefore, if you could provide your feedback on both of the items above by Friday, August 18th, it would be greatly appreciated. Dick Amabile 
Yes.  Contact either Gia or John and get the ball rolling.  Thanks Michael Terraso 08/18/2000 04:20 PM 
Steve, I received this note from Jeff Keeler who is on the government affai= rs=20 distribution list.  Would you also want the EHS groups to work with Gia or= =20 John in developing value added documentation for this year's budget process= ? =20 Mike 
Mike:   here is a message from Steve Kean that is very relevant to the part= =20 of our call the other day in which we discussed the need to determine what= =20 EHS' (or Environmental Strategies') role should be in communicating with JI= m=20 Steffes' group and documenting the value we add.   I will talk to Jim, but = I=20 am planning to have my group provide this information and meet the deadline= =20 in this memo.   You may want to inquire with Steve as to whether others in= =20 EHS should participate as well. Jeff 
Dear Colleagues, =20 On numerous occasions this past year, Enron Government Affairs (EGA) suppor= t=20 provided to commercial groups resulted in substantial increases in project= =20 economics and enhanced the overall value of many deals. The Regulatory Risk= =20 Analytics group has been tasked to help you quantify EGA=01,s portion of th= is=20 value added over the past year. For budgetary reasons, it is critical for= =20 every EGA member to participate in this exercise and document his/her share= =20 of significant value added.  Please contact Gia Maisashvili or John Neslage= =20 to discuss the  methodology for determining EGA=01,s value added as soon as= =20 possible.   The contact information for Gia is (713)  853-4346, and for Joh= n=20 its (713) 853-6827. The dead line for this effort is Friday,  September 1st Thank you for your cooperation 
Should we (or ESCA) start looking for opportunities like this now to get the word out? 
EEI is pleased to announce a three-conference series addressing RTOs and electricity market design. *  RTOs and Market Design:  How to Get Electricity Markets to Work. September 28 and 29, Hilton Washington Embassy Row. Current draft agenda attached.  This conference features a star-studded cast of speakers addressing market design issues from all around the country, Keynote by Commissioner William Massey. *  RTOs:  The October Filings November 2 and 3, Washington D.C. (hotel information to come). Team leaders from each of the RTOs under development that must file in October will present their RTO plans.  EEI will have summaries of all of the major filings available.   This conference will give everyone a chance to be on the same page as to what the RTO filings propose and to learn what is being developed around the country. *  RTOs:  The January Filings February 8 and 9, Washington, D.C. (hotel information to come). Team leaders from each of the approved ISOs that will file in January will present their RTO plans.  EEI will have summaries of all of the major filings available.  This conference will complete the initial tour of the RTO plans, nationwide. These three conferences will give you the information you need to understand tomorrow's electric business and a chance to network with leaders in the industry. For further information and conference registration materials, email Judy Mastin, jmastin@eei.org. We hope to see you there, Christina C. Forbes Director, Federal Commercial and Regulatory Policy Edison Electric Institute P 202 508 5104 F 202 508 5445 cforbes@eei.org - RTOMktDesAgenda.doc 
Klauberg, Rick, Jim, Robin Ross, Jay Flaherty, Dan Clearfield, Amy Leader in 6C2 
Please forward to public affairs group. 
Please see attached as promised by Peter Styles just now. 
fyi 
Steve, Thanks for your voice mail the other day.  Your memo certainly helped in better understanding the situation.  Locally, we have not seen any additional articles on CA or on dereg, but will let you know if we do. I will also take onboard your other comments.  I speak with Mark tomorrow to go over Nick's review. thanks, Joe 
fyi 
Jennifer Arnold. 
We handed the Oped to DeLay's staff at lunch.  I think we're finished for 
Any interest? 
Not yet.  May not be until sept 5 as ken is on vacation.  but there is a chance that ken will try to reach him in the meantime.  I'll let you know when I hear. 
houston Bryson? 3-6424 -- Peggy Menchaca Kathleen Leslie Lawner - gas choice Fumo3 (4,8,11,12,20) Peco 15 ( 39235 Lauren Cox 9416377899 
the price might be a bit stiff, particularly in light of the following: I don't think we need the DC grass tops component.  we have an effective set of messages, contacts, consultants and lawyers.  Perhaps we could use Charlie as a fresh set of eyes on that stuff, but I think that asking him to develop such an effort would be duplicative of what we have done with AAE, Paxson, Fleischman-Hillard, Divall, etc. I do think the other aspects of what he proposes would be useful, however, (and should be less resource intensive and at least a little less costly). Richard Shapiro@EES 08/21/2000 05:12 PM 
What do you think? 
Dear Mr. Shapiro: Attached is a memo from Charlie Baker regarding the FERC that he asked that I forward to you. If you have any questions, please call him at (617) 428-3412 or me at (617) 367-9929. Thank you. Sincerely, Kelly Goss Dewey Square Group - dsg e-mail to shapiro at enron 800.doc 
Powder River and Wind River Basins 
Eric - I think the release looks fine. Shelley -- I take it there are no affiliate issues here (or they have been fully vetted)? 
Powder River and Wind River Basins Attached is a draft press release regarding NBP's intent to purchase ENA's assets in the Powder River and Wind River Basins.  Please return all comments to me via e-mail by 5:00 pm on Tuesday, August 22.  If you have any questions, please call me at ext. 3-9053. Thanks. Eric 
Pete van de gohm suggested we might want to get something out on the mideast situation as well -- a sort of travel advisory.  Please follow up with him. I know that for our mideast project people we have been taking care of this in David Haug's old organization.  See if there is anything else we need to be doing.  Dennis Vegas may be able to provide you with a way to get the info you need. Michael Hicks@ECT 10/12/2000 02:11 PM 
Joe: Here is more on Colombia.  It emphasizes the 'take precautions' recommendation. Regards, Mike Hicks 
Mike - I've spoken to my contacts at State and Defense.  They both are saying that their people in Colombia are on high alert - no unnecessary travel, fully armored vehicles when available, changing time and routes, etc. - as they fully expect FARC and ELN to react violently to the initiation of US aid later this month.  They believe that the terrorists will go after easily recognizable but soft targets that are clearly American.  That pretty much means American corporations whose presence can be identified and who don't have visible security.  The Embassy understands that companies like Coca Cola have removed all expats. I asked if the Embassy officers have been able to move about the cities and they replied ""Of course, but they don't do it as much as they did and are more careful now.""  Cali and Medellin are regarded as more dangerous that Bogota and U.S. official travel to them is at a minimum. Travel in the countryside is absolutely forbidden except by helicopter. Hope this helps.  Let's face it, you can operate anywhere as long as you are careful... - Phil __________________________________________________ Do You Yahoo!? Get Yahoo! Mail - Free email you can access from anywhere! http://mail.yahoo.com/ 
this is fantastic!! 
Antonio 
Need to be there by noon to attend Ashok's staff meeting. Fredericksburg A room 
Greetings, Rice  Recruiting Team! Each of you has been chosen to represent Enron for our Fall 2000 recruiting efforts at the Rice/Jones School.  As part of the team, you will be challenged with choosing the best candidates from Rice to join our Associate Program. Our first campus event will be a tailgate party for the  Rice/University of Houston game, Saturday, September 2nd.  Everyone is invited to meet in the parking lot of Rice Stadium.  We will have tickets to the game along with beer and sandwiches.  The general presentation will be on Wednesday, September 6th, and interviews will be held on campus Thursday, October 5th, and Friday, October 6th.  There are a variety of campus events planned, so I hope you are all able to participate. We are planning to have a brief team meeting Tuesday, August 29th, from 9:00 to 10:00 am in 42C1 (the Gas Control Presentation Room) to discuss the Associate  Program, and the fall recruiting calendar. I look forward to seeing you all soon. Sincerely, Celeste Roberts Director of Associate & Analyst Campus Recruiting 
Antonio 
Is this someone in the analyst/associate program? 
You probably saw the announcement that Mike Mcconnell is now CEO of Enron Global Markets.  EGM will be focussing on a number of new and existing markets (including coal, LNG, crude and products, interest rates, agricultural commodities, equities, weather, etc).  One of the markets Mike's group is actively considering is transport capacity.  I mentioned your work in the area.  He is anxious to see it and meet with you after he has had a 
is the contact - Kathleen is doing this 
In case you had not heard, Lou Pai has done some fundraising for Franks and both he and his(Lou's) sister know him fairly well.  Keep it in mind if at some point we need to get in to see him. 
I think the Qs and As look good. I wouldn't bring up the California situation (eliminate the second half of A25). Eric Thode 08/22/2000 04:53 PM 
Comments? 
I haven't heard from anyone yet on the Q&A document related to Project Stanley.  Any thoughts or comments on the attached? 
Attached are the 58 questions prepared by GPC in anticipation of a public release on Project Stanley.  The answers have been compiled by numerous individuals, including Aleck, Rob, Kevin Wellenius and me.  Please review, make changes and return to me at your earliest convenience.  I will compile everyone's corrections, additions, etc. and prepare a revised document. Thanks. If you have any questions, call me at ext. 3-9053. Eric 
I realize you have pushed these guys already, but the attached letter would be better if not sent at all.  It doesn't address the real underlying problem -- that a ""reliability bill"" on a stand alone basis doesn't fix the problem. Instead, the letter implies that the reason for opposition is merely a political consideration -- ie that it may reduce Congress' appetite for action next year.  If possible, it would be better not to have the letter go out at all. 
Have we suggested to FERC staff that they force the ISO and PX to open the ""blackbox"" to show how they determine dispatch?  In addtion, if you are not on the distribution list for Belden's memo on utility behavior in California this summer, I will forward it to you.  It suggests some other areas FERC 
Looks like you got this earlier.  I think it has new relevance in light of FERC's announced investigation. 
Here are some more thoughts: 
As we begin to meet with FERC Staff on the Wholesale market issues related to CA problems, I think that we need to put together a list of questions that FERC needs to be asking Western power market participants. The following are some questions that I think are important to have FERC ask; I'm sure there are more. 1. Were California utilities underscheduling load into the PX day ahead market? 2. How many MWs did the CA ISO procure during each hour during the Summer 2000?  How does this compare with CA ISO procurement during 1999? 3. Has PG&E changed its bidding behavior associated with its Hydro facilities in 2000? 3. Are there baseload facilities that were operated differently in 2000 than in 1999? 4. Were any generation plants off-line due to unplanned maintenance during Summer 2000? 5. How did the CA ISO demand side program work?  Why didn't more load participate? 6. What options did SDG&E have to ""hedge"" its retail rates?  What were prices in the CAL PX block forward market on Jan 15, 2000 and May 15, 2000? 7. How high did natural gas prices go in California for generation during Summer 2000? 8. Were other Western power markets prices higher (year-on-year)? 9. Did the CA ISO Board face political pressure to reduce bid caps?  Is this appropriate for a FERC jurisdictional entity? 10. What specific details is SDG&E referring to in its Complaint on ""unworkably competitive"" CA ISO markets?  Can these be fixed ""quickly""? Please add other questions. Jim 
It's hard to formulate a position without more of the specifics, but I think our message should generally be: We support providing immediate rate relief to small residential customers. We believe that relief is best provided by giving San Diego the ability to procure power on a fixed price basis from the market.  San Diego has offers in front of it now; those should be evaluated and the legislature and the commission should give San Diego the flexibility to accept one or more of them.  This is sounder than running huge deferrals (deficits) to be later recovered from consumers. Rate relief should be accompanied by real reform.  Rate caps have bad long term consequences: they cause shortages.  Combining short-medium term rate relief with expedited siting of new facilities will address the near term problem while laying the proper groundwork for a long term solution. Bruno Gaillard@EES 08/24/2000 11:08 AM 
This email reflects today's events in Sacramento. The information provided is subject to change because of constant flux. However it is important for us to provide this information for feedback and to caution as to new regulations that may affect some deals in the making . Governor Davis, Assembly Women Susan Davis, and Senator Alpert had a press conference. They will introduce a rate/bill stabilization plan for SDG&E and an expediting siting bill. There is no language as of yet. Although there is no specific language, the following elements may be included: The stabilization plan will be applicable to residential and probably commercial customers in SDG&E The bill cap may be set at $68 for residential. The cap will be in place until the end of 2002 There will be language on expediting siting for generation plants Sam Wehn and Sandra McCubbin have been talking with the CEC executive director and several legislators about the siting portion of the bill. Any comments as to the bill cap proposal? 
Attached is the final Duque decision. It is the clean version of the draft I faxed on 8/21. 
In case you didn't receive the final version of the decision voted out on Monday approving the Duque ""rate stabilization plan,"" here it  is.? The Wood and Lynch dissents will be sent separately. ? Dan 
In the second paragraph we should delete the ""partnership"" statement.  I think it's more effective to refer to the New Power Company's risk management capabilities (as provided by Enron, if necessary).  That's the basis for the ability to guarantee savings (not economies of scale).  I am also concerned that the current statement implies that Enron is taking the risk on the commodity price guarantees. Peggy Mahoney@EES 08/24/2000 01:15 PM 
See draft release below.  I have made some suggestions.  Let me know what you think by Friday at 10:00am. Peggy 
Peggy: Attached is the first draft of an announcement that we're targeting for release before market opening on Monday, August 28th. It announces our entry into the New Jersey and Pennsylvania markets (and guess what, we're already beginning to sign up customers as of yesterday!). We'd put it out on PR Newswire (nationally) as well as to all the key industry trades. Please feel free to pass it along for comments to the usual crew at Enron. Thanks! Kathy 
Steve and Mark - FYI.  I would prefer not to state that Pug is on our Finance committee, and the reference to Enron's stake being substantial.  I will call Diane and let her know.  I assume Jeff and Ken and Pug will get a chance to approve this.  MEK 
Attached are the latest documents.  We plan to issue the release at 8 a.m. CDT tomorrow. 
It's hard to formulate a position without more of the specifics, but I think our message should generally be: We support providing immediate rate relief to small residential customers. We believe that relief is best provided by giving San Diego the ability to procure power on a fixed price basis from the market.  San Diego has offers in front of it now; those should be evaluated and the legislature and the commission should give San Diego the flexibility to accept one or more of them.  This is sounder than running huge deferrals (deficits) to be later recovered from consumers. Rate relief should be accompanied by real reform.  Rate caps have bad long term consequences: they cause shortages.  Combining short-medium term rate relief with expedited siting of new facilities will address the near term problem while laying the proper groundwork for a long term solution. Bruno Gaillard@EES 08/24/2000 11:08 AM 
This email reflects today's events in Sacramento. The information provided is subject to change because of constant flux. However it is important for us to provide this information for feedback and to caution as to new regulations that may affect some deals in the making . Governor Davis, Assembly Women Susan Davis, and Senator Alpert had a press conference. They will introduce a rate/bill stabilization plan for SDG&E and an expediting siting bill. There is no language as of yet. Although there is no specific language, the following elements may be included: The stabilization plan will be applicable to residential and probably commercial customers in SDG&E The bill cap may be set at $68 for residential. The cap will be in place until the end of 2002 There will be language on expediting siting for generation plants Sam Wehn and Sandra McCubbin have been talking with the CEC executive director and several legislators about the siting portion of the bill. Any comments as to the bill cap proposal? 
We don't have revised versions yet.  when we do, we will probably only want to put some (not all) of the documents on the intranet. Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/24/2000 02:06 PM 
Have we received the newly revised principles, facts and statements for the Luntz Focus Groups? I was hoping to place these on the California power issue database. Thanks, Gavin 
- Not going 
I agree that we should not be opposing rate caps for small customers and schools, but I think we should be pounding on the fact that market participants have been putting offers in front of sdge and that allowing the market to provide this solution is superior to legislated caps that require the creation of huge deferrals (and more problems in the future). Can we make that argument work? Mona L Petrochko 08/24/2000 09:45 PM 
I attended Cmmr. Wood's two-day hearing on Wholesale Markets, which concluded today (8/24) in San Diego.  Three Commissioner's were present (Wood, Lynch and Neeper) with Duque and Bilas participating by phone.  Administrative Law Judge Wetzel was present and a transcript was taken.  The quasi-legislative hearing was the beginning of a record developed for the investigation into the workings of wholesale/retail markets.  This session focused on Wholesale markets.  There will be subsequent sessions on retail issues, market structure and other related issues in the future.  My conclusion from this session is that Wood is looking for support for increasing regulatory intervention in the market. Dan Larcamp, Director of the Office of markets, Tariffs and Rates, FERC, was present.  He relayed FERC's concern of this matter and a desire to hold hearings in San Diego.  He also relayed that Hoecker held a press conference announcing the opening of a 206 investigative proceeding into the operation of the wholesale markets in California, which carried with it refund authority. The format of the hearing was to respond to pre-filed questions developed by Wood/Lynch.  Each member of the panel would respond to the questions and any questions posed by the Commissioners, the Judge or the CPUC Attorney.  No questions were posed by members of the audience.  Yesterday's panel of academics were comprised of: 1.  Dr. Timothy Duane-UC Berkley 2.  Dr. William Hogan-Harvard 3.  Dr. Frank Wolak-Stanford (ISO Market Surveillance Committee) 4.  David Marcus-Energy Consultant for the Coaltion of Utility Employees 5.  Dr. Gene Coyle 6.  Dr. Jean-Michel Glachant, Universite Paris I Pantheon Sorbonne The panel was asked to speak as individuals and not on behalf of any institutions they may represent.  While the purpose of the panel seemed to be to determine that market power was being exercised and that prices were too high and therefore not just and reasonable, the panelist stopped short of blaming generators and market participants in behaving illegally.  The concensus generally was that market power did exist at various times, but the mere existence did not constitute bad behavior.  None, with the exception of Dr. Wolak who is in the process of doing a study using recent data as part of his role for the Market Surveillance Committee, had done a study.  There was some discussion, though not much, of the monopsony power of the utilities.  I think ultimately the group conceded that scarcity of supply amplified concerns about the exercise of market power, as even the increase in gas costs did not fully explain the recent spikes.  Wolak believes that encourage utilities to enter into forward purchases will reduce the exercise of real-time market power. Hogan seemed to be there with Sempra's interests in mind.  He continued to promote expansion of the ISO's abilities to dispatch load as well as maintain system reliability.  There was alot of discussion about forward purchase ability for utilities so as to be less subject to volatile market prices. The concerns were also discussed about the appropriateness of a distribution utility making purchasing decisions on behalf of its customers.  This included discussion of separation of these functions and the default provider role. Most everyone agreed that rolling back to a regulated market was not feasible without raising other major and serious concerns, however there seemed to be support for some interim measures where cost-of-service regulation may be a good idea and that was during peak periods.  All agreed that a demand response, and price signals, are important in the long-run, although not to the extent currently experienced in San Diego. Today's panel included representatives from SDG&E, SCE and PG&E, TURN, UCAN and ORA. While yesterday's panel maintained objectivity as to whether or not generators were exercising market power to the detriment of the system, today's panel made no bones about the generators being to blame. SCE/PG&E indicated their need for relief for recovery of market costs in excess of the rate freeze.  SDG&E was still on the hot seat for their inaction in hedging any of their supply.  SDG&E brought up their failed PBR proposal and ORA and UCAN thought that that may be one way to incent the utility to be more responsible with their purchases. UCAN discussed the Governor's direction and the potential for putting rate caps into affect for residential and small commercial.  He mentioned that C&I customers are experience difficulties as well. TURN raised the need for cost-based bid caps and cost-based peaking contracts.  Mike Florio, TURN, urged against any further divestitute of assets and alleged market concentration on those assets that had been divested.  In fact, TURN urged the Commission to seek legislation to clarify the Commission's authority to order retention of assets. Neeper urged that part of the solution should be changing the current requirement to use the PX as the only authorized exchange, although TURN disagreed. Bruno Gaillard 08/24/2000 06:09 PM 
Siting related bills 1. Good new - The Williamson Act passed the Senate 34-1, It should be heard at the assembly Saturday or Monday if it is not redirected to a Committee hearing. 2. There was a long meeting with Ducheny with regards to AB 970. The enviro's boycotted, they want to draft a bill with Keeley. Labor was obstructionist - they wanted to gut all the expediting siting  language with regards to all facilities except for the peaking plants. Rate Cap related bills 1. The Edison Language on Rate Stabilization may not go anywhere. Edison has not found an author because of the efforts of Enron and others lobbying against it. Furthermore there are signs that Gov. Davis opposes it. 2. The Governor's office has issued a proposed language for a rate cap bill. The language however is not available as of yet. It may be released today or tomorrow. SDG&E has shown concerns over the content of the bill. They seem to think that it is worse than initially proposed by the Governor in his press release. The bill includes retroactive rate caps through 6/1/00. The rate cap could reflect Wood's rate cap proposal (6.5 cts cap on the energy component The bill does not specify who or how the costs associated with the cap will be recovered. (The reasoning is that UDCs will be more cautious in their procurement if there is uncertainty on who is responsible for the costs.) All of this is speculative. We hope to see the actual language soon. 3. Enron has been working with the Republican leadership to promote a rate cap proposal similar to the amended language we have proposed for AB2290. The bill focuses only on SDG&E customers and our major principals are the following. The Interim Rate Cap should be limited to residential and small commercial customers, plus specific institutions that have a significant public role, such as schools and hospitals. The Interim Rate Cap should be limited to the period ending December 31, 2001. The Interim Rate Cap must be structured so that any undercollection is eventually recovered from the same customers who benefit from the lower rates provided by the rate cap. 
Steve, SDG&E came out with the attached RFP for fixed price power.  They are requesting proposals for several standard blocks through 12/03.  Responses are due August 30.  ENA/EPMI will be prepared to respond, if appropriate.  In the meantime, we continue to price the full requirements residential structure and await any news from the governor's office/legislature.  I can be reached at 503-464-3735. Regards, Chris 
Steve, SDG&E came out with the attached RFP for fixed price power.  They are requesting proposals for several standard blocks through 12/03.  Responses are due August 30.  ENA/EPMI will be prepared to respond, if appropriate.  In the meantime, we continue to price the full requirements residential structure and await any news from the governor's office/legislature.  I can be reached at 503-464-3735. Regards, Chris 
Regulatory Update 
calendar 
Regulatory Update On behalf of Enron Host Bruno Gaillard, please consider this an invitation to participate in a conference call regarding California legislative and regulatory updates.  You may join the call on: 
PGE meeting -- identify alternatives 
Rosie -- please check Ken's calendar.  This would be a great one to do if we can squeeze it in. Nick -- congrats on what looks like a great new opportunity to make progress.  I am in all week and would love to talk to you and Joe.  If we can't otherwise make schedules work, call me at home after hours Houston time (713-621-6550). Nicholas O'Day 08/27/2000 10:49 PM 
Steve, Over the last month the Japanese regulators and Government have come to the realization that the electricity deregulation initiatives implemented in March of this year have not stimulated competition in the manner in which they had expected. MITI and the Government are currently examining why the initiatives implemented in March are falling short of expectations and looking to move the 2003 review forward to next year. There are currently two multi party committees looking at the energy sector. The ruling Liberal Democratic Party also has one committee looking at energy. In addition, MITI is in the process of forming a new advisory group comprising academics to consider the next stage of deregulation. As you are aware, we have been working the regulatory aspects through MITI and the US Government for some time now with a degree of success - in fact, the majority of our 12 month goals have been achieved. Recently, with the addition of Kimura, we have increased our level of contact with senior political figures in Japan. Both MITI and the USG continue to seek Enron's views on issues relating to the current deregulation process and the way Enron wants to see electricity deregulation. We have recently addressed the parliamentary Deregulation Committee which reports to the Prime Minister and regularly provide educational presentations to MITI on issues relevant to deregulation. Further, senior political figures are now recognizing that Enron can assist in the deregulation process in a positive way. What we appear to have in Japan in the electricity sector is a reasonably clean slate and the opportunity to have a major say in how things should be structured in the future. Ken Lay's links with the Republican Presidential campaign has received media attention in Japan and it is believed in Government circles here that he will receive a cabinet position if Gov. Bush is elected. As a result, Mr Lay currently carries a great deal of weight in senior Government circles in Japan. In the period prior to the Presidential election, we have an ideal opportunity to get our message across at the highest levels of the Japanese Government through Mr Lay. A meeting between Mr Lay and Prime Minister and other senior Government members would significantly increase Enron's profile in Japan and assist in conveying our vision for the next phase of deregulation. If Mr Lay were to visit Japan, possibly in late October or early November, we would also look at coordinating the Tokyo office opening with the visit and arrange a number of high level commercial meetings. Prime Minister Mori and the US Ambassador have already expressed an interest in attending the office opening. Both Joe Hirl and I would like to speak with you further about the above. When would be a convenient time? kind regards 
August 25, 2000 Dear Subscriber: Compensation Resource Group, Inc., http://www.crgworld.com, would like to= =20 thank you for taking an interest in our 2000 Survey of Current Trends - A= =20 survey of Executive Benefits for the Fortune 1000. We would like to let you= =20 know that a full color PDF version of the seventh annual survey has been=20 posted to CRG=01,s Publications web page, http://www.crgworld.com/publicati= ons.=20 To download a free copy of the Survey: 1. Go to http://www.crgworld.com/publications. 2. Type in your E-Mail address and click Login. 3. If you have not previously registered with us, you will be asked to fill= =20 out the short registration form.  Once you complete the form, click ""SUBMIT= "". Then you can download and print. Once again we would like to thank you for your continued interest. =20 Sincerely, William L. MacDonald Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer =20 
Mass. To Join N.Y., Calif In Market-based Elec Rates 
Add Mona Petrochko, peggy mahoney and Rob Bradley Gavin Dillingham@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/25/2000 04:55 PM 
We have developed an intranet site/database for information tracking purposes for the California Power Issue. The intranet site will be placed on the home.enron.com webpage by Tuesday morning for all Enron employees to access. However, today, this comprehensive database is available to you for your California Power Issue needs. The database has been populated with the latest information that I have received concerning this topic and has been broken down in three categories: California Power Issues, National Power Issues and Secured Documents. It has then been broken down further into subcategories. The secured documents sections will only be accessible to those that are receiving this e-mail. Please let me know if you believe others should have access to this information. The secured document section contains all the information that I have received that Luntz Consulting has helped us develop, i.e. principals, statements, speeches and facts, as well as, talking points and other statements developed internally. These documents can be easily switched to open access to all Enron employees if you believe that these documents should not be restricted. To access the intranet site you must be logged on to the network and then go to this link:  http://nahou-lndev02d.corp.enron.com/GovtAffa.nsf  (It is best if you copy this link and paste it in your internet Explorer or Netscape browser.) Once you are at this site you will  be able to access all articles and information that I have collected/received concerning the California Power Issue. You can navigate the site by using the links on the left hand side of the screen. While navigating this site, keep in mind that the actual interface will be changed before we go live on Tuesday morning. To access the secured documents, click on secured documents and type in your user name, which is the same as if you are logging onto the network, and then type in your password, which is the same as if you are logging onto the network. However, if you have difficulties entering this site, you will need to change your Lotus internet password. Which is very simple to do and which you will need to do regardless if you decide to use this site or not, it is all part of the current computer migration. To change your internet password, go to this link  and then hit the edit person key. Go to the last field that says internet password and type in whatever password you would like, preferably your current network login password. (In the internet password section you will see a bunch of numbers and letters, delete those and enter your new network password.) There are still some bugs that will be worked out by Tuesday, but I thought since this is such a fast moving issue it was best to get this tool out so it could be used when needed. If you have any questions, please call me at 713-853-4382. Thanks, Gavin 
Please send to the distribution list 
While the more-open gas market may have more tools available than in electric markets, market solutions have been proposed as an alternative to legislated rate caps in the hard hit San Diego market. Gavin -- please send Irwin copies of the articles on the offers made in San Diego. Stelzer@aol.com on 08/25/2000 03:14:04 PM 
The WSJ report of 8-23 on the power/price situation in Con Ed's territory contains the following: ""And the tools to hedge prices, such as those that exist in other commodities markets, aren't fully developed yet for th 
Looks ok Peggy Mahoney@EES 08/25/2000 01:24 PM 
New version.  I think all suggested changes were made. Let me know soon!! Peggy 
Peggy: Attached is the revised release.  On Gene's direction, I did not omit the ""economies of scale"" phrase, but I did make changes which attribute it to technology (AOL) and processing (IBM). Let me know what everyone thinks. Thanks, Kathy 
Sue Landwehr in government affairs spoke to a member of the Thompson administration who indicated that the governor may be interested in talking to you about Amtrak.  Specifically, ECT has been working with Amtrak for 
One more -- Nick O'Day in Tokyo 
Steve Kean wanted me to forward you the information on the California Issues Database that was developed for the current California power problem. Attached are the instructions on how to use the site. You will have access to the secured part of the site by the end of the day, Monday, August 26th. Thanks, Gavin 
We have developed an intranet site/database for information tracking purposes for the California Power Issue. The intranet site will be placed on the home.enron.com webpage by Tuesday morning for all Enron employees to access. However, today, this comprehensive database is available to you for your California Power Issue needs. The database has been populated with the latest information that I have received concerning this topic and has been broken down in three categories: California Power Issues, National Power Issues and Secured Documents. It has then been broken down further into subcategories. The secured documents sections will only be accessible to those that are receiving this e-mail. Please let me know if you believe others should have access to this information. The secured document section contains all the information that I have received that Luntz Consulting has helped us develop, i.e. principals, statements, speeches and facts, as well as, talking points and other statements developed internally. These documents can be easily switched to open access to all Enron employees if you believe that these documents should not be restricted. To access the intranet site you must be logged on to the network and then go to this link:  http://nahou-lndev02d.corp.enron.com/GovtAffa.nsf  (It is best if you copy this link and paste it in your internet Explorer or Netscape browser.) Once you are at this site you will  be able to access all articles and information that I have collected/received concerning the California Power Issue. You can navigate the site by using the links on the left hand side of the screen. While navigating this site, keep in mind that the actual interface will be changed before we go live on Tuesday morning. To access the secured documents, click on secured documents and type in your user name, which is the same as if you are logging onto the network, and then type in your password, which is the same as if you are logging onto the network. However, if you have difficulties entering this site, you will need to change your Lotus internet password. Which is very simple to do and which you will need to do regardless if you decide to use this site or not, it is all part of the current computer migration. To change your internet password, go to this link  and then hit the edit person key. Go to the last field that says internet password and type in whatever password you would like, preferably your current network login password. (In the internet password section you will see a bunch of numbers and letters, delete those and enter your new network password.) There are still some bugs that will be worked out by Tuesday, but I thought since this is such a fast moving issue it was best to get this tool out so it could be used when needed. If you have any questions, please call me at 713-853-4382. Thanks, Gavin 
Congratulations! 
I'm putting in for Chairman and CEO of rationalizations and euphemisms. Richard Shapiro@EES 08/28/2000 01:59 PM 
With the proliferation of business units, I would like to nominate myself = to=20 be President and COO of Enron Global Political  Origination Services. Why t= he=20 proiferation? Only way to hand out promotions? 
Neither Ken nor Jeff are available.  It would probably be better for one of you to speak anyway.  Any interest? 
Steve, Here's the invitation I mentioned.? Thanks for following up on this and my own personal invitation to get somebody to come to class. Pankaj X-Sender: esulliv@pop.fas.harvard.edu 
Please handle 
SK - I let Sherri know that you are planning to go and that I have it on your calendar.  mm Steve, I believe we discussed your attendance at the April 15-17 NAM board meeting at Loews Ventana Canyon (Tucson, AZ), in so far as Jeff is not available these dates.  Please confirm that you are attending in his place, and I'll forward the information he received today.  Sorry - my memory is getting worse by the minute!  SRS 
I'm looking forward to your discussion regarding the ""reregulation threat"" at the next meeting.  Below are some of my observations: While it's premature to say we have an energy crisis, we are witnessing the triple threat of high summer gasoline prices, spiking electricity prices, and high natural gas prices for the upcoming heating season (I'll send along some of the data). There is at least the potential for this to become a prominent national 
Jeff wouldn't be able to leave until late the 23d or early on the 24th and 
I spoke with Jeff and he is not going to be available for the speech on the 26th.  Do we pass or is there an alternative?  Can we get done what we need to get done with Ken's visit the following week? Nicholas O'Day 08/31/2000 06:01 AM 
Ken Lay Visit. Following discussions with the Prime Minister's office and a quick check with venues 31 October is firming up as the preferred date for a meeting with the Prime Minister and an office opening by the PM. Jeff Skilling Visit. The Nikkei and the Tokyo University have now made the decision to invite Mr Skilling to give the key note address at the symposium on 26 November in Tokyo. As mentioned, the symposium is the most prestigious conference on IT in Japan. While the conference itself receives significant media attention, the President of Nikkei has offered to interview Mr Skilling. This honour is usually reserved for Heads of State. The interview will be featured on the front page of the Nikkei and picked up by other major media services. kind regards Nicholas O'Day 08/29/2000 07:43 PM 
Ken Lay Visit. Balancing the need to push out the arrangement of high level meetings as far as possible with the desire to have a meeting with Prime Minister Mori prior to the US Presidential election, the week commencing 30 October would be the optimum time for a visit by Mr Lay. PM Mori is generally available in that week. We will get a preferred time from the PM's chief secretary first thing tomorrow morning Tokyo time. Jeff Skilling Visit. The boards of Nikkei and Tokyo University Institute of Advanced Studies have yet to make a decision on the key note speaker for the one day invitation only seminar to be held on 26 October. As mentioned, the boards will choose between the chairman of Cisco and Jeff Skilling. The conference is focused on the IT revolution and an invitation only event for approximately 600 of Japan's corporate leaders. The speaking panel and topics for discussion will be developed around the key note speaker. If Mr Skilling were to give the key note speech, it is likely that key senior Government Ministers would be asked to present at the seminar. Following the Prime Minister's commitment at the Okinawa summit of US$15billion expenditure in the region on IT infrastructure and education, Japan's focus on e-commerce is almost reaching fever pitch. There will be significant interest in the conference from senior levels of Government and the business community. Further, as you would expect with the involvement of the Nikkei, there is typically significant media coverage associated with the key note speaker's presentation. kind regards 
FYI.  I had started an informal discussion group to work on political/regulatory risk..  I included Jane, Jim Bouillian, and Scott Gahn. Jane sent me the atached as an example of how her group approaches issues in the acquisition context. 
I may be adding someone to the agenda -- Vikram Pandit (recommended by Ken 
FYI,   There is a rumor on Yahoo that Enron has bid for Carin Energy.  I have talked with Jackie Gentle in our London Office who first heard the rumor and we have confirmed that neither EGEP or the London office is pursuing such a deal.  My guess is that it is either EOGR ( I know they are pursuing an Int'l deal) or just a bad release. jeff 
How are we handling these now?  Last time I talked to Jeff, we weren't going to lift the restrictions until next week (assuming we do lift the restrictions).  Any word? 
Steve/ Cindy Just want to state a case for this move, (before everyone starts up on the movement moratorium issues surronding the "" EI"" companies -which I understand is still in place). Stella Chan (Director level) is one of 6 expats Apachi have seconded into our SK Enron JV in Korea. Because they all mobilized at the same time, Darrell Kinder and I put in place a rotation plan whereby some would leave early, some extend (so we didnt have everyone leaving the JV at the same time). Its worked well to date, and we've mamanged to keep the Partners happy with the moves/replacements. Bottom line with respect to the Project Summer moratorium (in my view) is that because Stella will be replaced she is no longer part of the 'intellectual capital' the buyer (or any future buyer) is seeking to retain, and so the move should go ahead. Hope you concur. 
More info. 
Please handle 
We are publishing photographs of board members in the upcoming issue of the BABC-Houston newsletter. Please provide us with a photo (in color if possible). Will you also include a short biography? Your response by this Friday will be helpful. We hope to have the newsletter out early next week. Thank you! 
I enjoyed talking with you the other day and am happy to answer your questions:  both the Texas position and the Washington DC position report to Rick Shapiro.  From a government affairs standpoint, I've divided the world between Rick's group (the Americas) and Mark Schroeder's group (Europe and Asia).  Both Rick and Mark report to me. Joe Allen continues as part of the Texas legislative team, working for the head of that group (formerly Kathleen Magruder). Terry Thorn has taken a commercial position in Enron and no longer works on government affairs issues for the company (except to the extent we call on various executives to help from time-to-time). ""Untermeyer, Chase"" <Chase.Untermeyer@COMPAQ.com> on 08/31/2000 04:53:09 PM 
STEVE: I very much appreciate your call the day before yesterday and your asking if I would like to compete to succeed Joe Hillings as head of Enron's Washington office. Although until that moment I hadn't thought of returning to Washington except to serve again in national office, I would be pleased to talk further about this opportunity with you or your recruiter. In recalling our conversation, I realize that twice you asked if I had any questions, and if I had been quick to take advantage of your offer, I would have asked how government relations are handled at Enron. To whom does Joe Hillings report: to you or to Terry Thorne? You mentioned a woman who currently has responsibility for government relations in Texas and some neighboring states but is leaving for another job at Enron; to whom does she report? Then there is Joe Allen, whom I have known since our days in the Legislature; doesn't he (also) handle Texas affairs? I am sorry I didn't ask you all this on Tuesday. Whatever the answers, it's clear that government relations are  much more central to the work of Enron than at Compaq, which is why it would be a very exciting place to work. Thanks again for your call, your courtesy, and your indulgence with this tardy line of questioning. With best wishes, CHASE. CHASE UNTERMEYER Director of Government Affairs Compaq Computer Corporation P.O. Box 692000-110706 Houston, Texas 77269-2000 Tel: (281) 518-1093 Fax: (281) 518-1106 chase.untermeyer@compaq.com 
Could you work with Allison to get the needed information to cathy. 
Cathy Van Way called asking my view on some names she'd been given to invite to the hearing.  (I continue to cajole Jessie Knight to appear.)  During the call, she mentioned that the committee intends to invite Steve Kean and that she needed someone to email here Steve's vitals so that they could write a letter inviting him. 
A bit lengthy, but I think it looks fine. Peggy Mahoney@EES 08/30/2000 12:41 PM 
Attached is a draft of the Starwood press release with our initial changes in red. Please review and let me know your thoughts by end of day Thursday, Aug 31. It is clear that Starwood has several agendas with this release and, after talking with them, they would prefer not to cut any of their messages.  Scheduled release date is Tuesday, Sept 5.  Please feel free to call me to discuss. Also - I've attached a map of all their US owned, franchised and leased property locations. 87 of the properties are owned and there are approx. 400 total in the US. 
This is the e-mail I was talking about. 
Mona,  If you can get the opt-in removed it would be a great benefit to our effort.  6.5 cents is well below market at this point  and we can not compete against it.  I understand there is a true-up but do we know how this will work?  Given the lack market intelligence I would suspect customers will opt-in just because the price cap is lower than offers in the market. Please, do everything possible to remove this opt-in.  Thanks Mona L Petrochko 08/29/2000 04:38 PM 
AB 265 passed through the Senate a few minutes ago.  It now must go to the Assembly, where there is still a lot of uncertainty about what changes the Assembly will want to the bill.  We still haven't seen the latest ""republican"" language. Also, AB 265 is double joined to AB 970, controversial siting bill.  To the extent one or the other fails, they both fail. AB 265 (Davis/Alpert) has: 1.  a 6.5 cent/kWh energy rate cap through 2002, with potential extension through 2003. 2.  Applicable to residential, small commercial (up to 100 kW) 3.  Opt-in provision for large industrial/agricultural customers at 6.5 cents with an annual true-up 4.  Use of revenues from utility generation assets (including PPA) to offset undercollections. 5.  Reasonableness review for San Diego G&E Will update with more information as available. No news about SCE. 
I do support the change.  Let me know what I can do to help.  You are correct: this is the way we handle regulatory counsel in other regions, particularly the US.  What Derrick and I have agreed with regard to counsel selection is:  gov't/reg affairs picks the counsel we want to use and he retains a veto, which has rarely if ever been exercised.  Once we have retained counsel we will use that counsel on other regulatory projects unless the legal department starts to have a problem with the firm (eg because they represent someone against us in litigation).  Again, I don't recall this ever being an issue.  It seems to work:  outside counsel gets the message that we will look dimly on any firm that squares off against us and we select the most qualified counsel on our issues. Mark Schroeder@ECT 09/01/2000 06:18 AM 
You should be receiving today a copy of my draft budget proposed for Enron Europe for 2001.  I understand from Nick that they are doing their own budget for Enron Japan, which I will see only after the fact. MOST IMPORTANTLY, you will see that I am budgetting to pay a substantial sum for legal fees.  I will be proposing to John Sherriff, Michael Brown (our new COO and former General Counsel, which will make my proposal doubly problematic), and to Mark Evans (current General Counsel) that I pay/manage our outside regulatory counsel.  We can discuss (rather than do a lengthy e-mail), but having this function managed by Legal (and Houston/Jim Derrick rejecting our choice of counsel in important cases), is increasingly a problem.  I believe this will mirror what you do in the USA, e.g., Dan Watkiss, and hope that I can count on your support for this change.  thansk mcs 
Please send the economist piece around. 
I may have missed it in your many e-mails, but if you had not seen it, The Economist of 26 August has an excellent piece on the lessons of California (p. 16 of European edition).  California botched it, Pennsylvania did better, and California's problems are no reason to shrink from deregulation.   mcs 
No, I had the right date from our previous communications. Nicholas O'Day 08/31/2000 09:25 PM 
I have noticed a fairly significant typo in the note below. The correct date for the key note address is 26 October, as set out in my first note. Did that impact on the issue of availability? 
Ken Lay Visit. Following discussions with the Prime Minister's office and a quick check with venues 31 October is firming up as the preferred date for a meeting with the Prime Minister and an office opening by the PM. Jeff Skilling Visit. The Nikkei and the Tokyo University have now made the decision to invite Mr Skilling to give the key note address at the symposium on 26 November in Tokyo. As mentioned, the symposium is the most prestigious conference on IT in Japan. While the conference itself receives significant media attention, the President of Nikkei has offered to interview Mr Skilling. This honour is usually reserved for Heads of State. The interview will be featured on the front page of the Nikkei and picked up by other major media services. kind regards Nicholas O'Day 08/29/2000 07:43 PM 
Ken Lay Visit. Balancing the need to push out the arrangement of high level meetings as far as possible with the desire to have a meeting with Prime Minister Mori prior to the US Presidential election, the week commencing 30 October would be the optimum time for a visit by Mr Lay. PM Mori is generally available in that week. We will get a preferred time from the PM's chief secretary first thing tomorrow morning Tokyo time. Jeff Skilling Visit. The boards of Nikkei and Tokyo University Institute of Advanced Studies have yet to make a decision on the key note speaker for the one day invitation only seminar to be held on 26 October. As mentioned, the boards will choose between the chairman of Cisco and Jeff Skilling. The conference is focused on the IT revolution and an invitation only event for approximately 600 of Japan's corporate leaders. The speaking panel and topics for discussion will be developed around the key note speaker. If Mr Skilling were to give the key note speech, it is likely that key senior Government Ministers would be asked to present at the seminar. Following the Prime Minister's commitment at the Okinawa summit of US$15billion expenditure in the region on IT infrastructure and education, Japan's focus on e-commerce is almost reaching fever pitch. There will be significant interest in the conference from senior levels of Government and the business community. Further, as you would expect with the involvement of the Nikkei, there is typically significant media coverage associated with the key note speaker's presentation. kind regards 
When we have described the problems and solutions for California we have focussed on generation siting and flexibility to hedge.  We have stayed away from transmission issues on the assumption that California, with its ISO and PX, does not suffer from the same discrimination issues as other parts of the country.  Is this true?  Does California's system layer in priorities for utility use of the system -- eg doesn't PG&E control ""path 15""?  Does that control provide advantageous access to PG&E?  Are there other examples and are there links between these ""preferences"" and the current problems in California?  As we are trying to convert reliability and pricing concerns 
calendar 
URGENT The Associate and Analyst Recruiting Department will be conducting a number of two hour workshops to review our recruiting and interview process for the fall on-campus recruiting effort.  Critical information regarding our on-campus interview process, revised evaluation forms and program structure will be reviewed during these two hours sessions. It is mandatory that all team members attend these workshops.  All team members must attend in order to articulate and demonstrate the Enron recruiting process.  Knowing how busy schedules are, we have made arrangements to present these workshops in two hours sessions for a total of 40 workshops that will run during the last week of August, through the month of September and end at mid October. Listed below are the dates, location and times for each session.  Please select a date and time and e-mail this information to my assistant, Dolores Muzzy.  We can accommodate 25 participants at a time.  Dolores will take dates and times on a first come, first serve basis.  We have scheduled enough sessions to accommodate every member of both the Associate and Analyst recruiting teams. In order to participate in the recruiting process, you must attend one of these sessions.  We will be tracking participation.  CPE credits will also be given for attending this workshop. 
what does the siting bill provide for? Mona L Petrochko@EES 08/29/2000 04:38 PM 
AB 265 passed through the Senate a few minutes ago.  It now must go to the Assembly, where there is still a lot of uncertainty about what changes the Assembly will want to the bill.  We still haven't seen the latest ""republican"" language. Also, AB 265 is double joined to AB 970, controversial siting bill.  To the extent one or the other fails, they both fail. AB 265 (Davis/Alpert) has: 1.  a 6.5 cent/kWh energy rate cap through 2002, with potential extension through 2003. 2.  Applicable to residential, small commercial (up to 100 kW) 3.  Opt-in provision for large industrial/agricultural customers at 6.5 cents with an annual true-up 4.  Use of revenues from utility generation assets (including PPA) to offset undercollections. 5.  Reasonableness review for San Diego G&E Will update with more information as available. No news about SCE. 
Mary- Ken has been asked by Mayor Brown to chair the fundraising effort to get voter approval on a light rail referendum in Houston.  My guess is that he will decline given the other demands on his schedule, but I don't know that for sure.  I think our respnse Mary Clark@ENRON 04/13/99 02:21 PM 
Steve/Joe: Mark suggested that I contact you to provide a response to this employee's question (see below) to Ken and Jeff about trains and light rail.  Please draft a response and send it to me.   I will format it and send it to Ken and Jeff for their review.  Thanks. Mary Clark 
A question to the Office of the Chairman. Rosie 
Office of the Chairman: While traveling within Germany recently, I noticed that electric powered trains are popular and also provide a safe, reliable, affordable and comfortable means of transportation to the public. This brought to mind a question to ask you: Is Enron taking any action to promote development and implementation of electric trains or light rail in the USA and/or abroad, either through the Political Action Committee, Lobbying or through the efforts of the Business Development Offices? I do believe that the commuters would benefit from having access to electric trains that provide safe, clean and comfortable transport. Enron could potentially benefit by supplying the power for these trains within the USA (and abroad as well). Just think if the city of Houston offered light rail as an option for commuting to and from work, as well as commuting to other locations - both interstate and intrastate. A person could take a train to Galveston, Austin, or elsewhere and arrive in short time with the high speed rail available. With the new Ballpark downtown and the revitalization of the downtown area, it would seem that a legitimate method of public transportation is the element that is missing from the Houston city model. Buses that run on diesel are clearly not the solution for mass transit. Regards, Dave Hubbard Cuiaba, Brasil 011-55-65-612-2102 
Skilling will be speaking at the National Press Club next week.  He'll give an overview of Enron's business, talk about what's going on in power markets, and what should be done to fix the current problems.  California will get covered as well.  Other than what we have already discussed, is there 
AB 265 passed through the Senate a few minutes ago.  It now must go to the Assembly, where there is still a lot of uncertainty about what changes the Assembly will want to the bill.  We still haven't seen the latest ""republican"" language. Also, AB 265 is double joined to AB 970, controversial siting bill.  To the extent one or the other fails, they both fail. AB 265 (Davis/Alpert) has: 1.  a 6.5 cent/kWh energy rate cap through 2002, with potential extension through 2003. 2.  Applicable to residential, small commercial (up to 100 kW) 3.  Opt-in provision for large industrial/agricultural customers at 6.5 cents with an annual true-up 4.  Use of revenues from utility generation assets (including PPA) to offset undercollections. 5.  Reasonableness review for San Diego G&E Will update with more information as available. No news about SCE. 
Look at this.  Baum finally speaks up  -- way too late. Can somebody tell me what SDG&E's energy rate was pre-dereg? 
They refer to expedited siting.  What are the provisions? 
Please send Pam Benson the information for Joe on where to send the check, who to make it out to , etc 
Okay, thanks, Joe Steven J Kean@EES 08/26/99 01:08 PM 
Joe -- Tom Delay is having an event in Houston on Sept 1.  A table is $5000. Jeff is giving, I'm giving and the PAC is giving.  Would you be willing to give 1000? 
fyi 
Another bit of background re Frankfurt (see below).  I would be a little bi= t=20 more insistent on German Consulate support than Herr Sturm suggests=20 (otherwise this could become a black hole for your time). 
Yes, thanks.  Lay is going to be giving the keynote.  It may be a hard story to assemble: the gas market is deregulated and structured pretty much the way we would like to see it done in both gas and power markets, yet we still have high prices.  It's a bit of a stretch to blame it all on OPEC.  I'm interested in any views you may have. David Haug@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/01/2000 10:30 PM 
I assume you are involved in this but just in case... - - -DLH 
Mr. David Haug Chairman and CEO Enron Caribbean Basin Dear Mr. Haug: I am writing to bring your attention to an important and timely event that will be held on September 20th at the Hyatt Regency Columbus, in Columbus, Ohio - ""The Governors' Natural Gas Summit: Responding to the Challenge."" This event is convened by the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission (IOGCC).? Co-chaired by Alaska Governor Tony Knowles, IOGCC Chairman and Ohio Governor Bob Taft, with the participation of other governors, this forum promises to be an outstanding exchange of ideas among leaders of government, energy producers, transporters, distributors, and end-users on the subject of the current and long-term outlook for natural gas resources and markets in North America. A very distinguished group of speakers is assembling, including senior government officials and senior executives of companies critically involved in the energy value chain. Primary Goals of the Summit include: * Exploring and clearly communicating the current dynamics of the natural gas market * Informing the industry and the public about the current and future supply potential for gas * Providing governmental and industry leaders with an opportunity to discuss natural gas in the context of national energy policy, with the input of interested State Governors. The Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission (IOGCC) and the governors have asked CERA to help organize the Summit and has invited senior CERA staff to moderate panel discussions on the Natural Gas Marketplace and the Supply Response for North America. In addition, I will be providing an opening framework for participants and contributing to the wrap-up of the Summit at the close of the day with the governors.? We are very pleased to be working with the governors and with the IOGCC and its executive director, Christine Hansen. We hope that you can join us for this important event, and encourage you to view the Summit agenda on the IOGCC Web-site at: http://www.iogcc.state.ok.us/MEETINGS/2000_Governors_Natural_Gas_Summit.htm 
Per my voicemail. 
Steven, attached in the document are the next four descriptions.  Only 3 o/s now ont he liquids markets.  I will try to get these to you today as well. Thanks Awais 44 171 970 7377 
Sorry for the delay. Here are the next four descriptions. Only the three liquids one waiting now. I have sent these to David Forster in our Project group to review first before I send them to yourself.  If I don't get them back today I will send them over the weekend so they are there for you on Monday. Could you please send me comments back on all the other descriptions today. Is your fax machine at your end OK?  It's just that the other fax you sent came through a dark background making the comments a little hard to read. My fax is 44 171 316 5420. Awais Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. 
SAP Impact: File names have changed from ""b"" + company + rc for MSA booking to ""s"" + cost center for SAP.  Other changes have also been implemented.  Please send a Notes mail to ""Bill Myers"" if you notice any problems, particularly if you think that they might be conversion or program related.  (I already know about the company description for the MSA spreadsheets where companies are rebooked to themselves). Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for telephones, data ports, EDI, Enterprise LAN, Enterprise Help Desk, video conferencing, Internet access, email, and other services provided to Enron business units by Enron Information Services.  These expenses are posted in MSA Detail Class 845. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB or 3AC.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People specific services for employees are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's HR company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the person requesting the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the HR company and department for each employee.  This snapshot is taken at the end of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If our billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct HR department by contacting your HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". If you wish to move EIS charges after to a different company and/or department after billings have been processed or if you wish to discuss an alternative to using your HR department for people specific billings, please 
Got your message.  I'm testifying at the Congressional hearing and Dasovich is covering FERC.  I think Jeff's comments were taken out of context.  He said policymakers do need to take care of small customers whose bills are tripling.  Frankly, we'd get slaughtered if we said anything else.  But he also said there is a right way and a wrong way to do it.  Enron and others had provided a market based answer by offering a fixed price deal to SDG&E (which would have enabled them to cap rates to those who had not switched. California elected instead to cap rates and deficit spend (ie create a deferral account).  I don't think we can stand for anything that doesn't protect the small customers, but we can continue to emphasize the market based solutions.  One of the messages in my testimony will be: customers 
Thaniks for the note.  Christie is now organizing our university relationships, so direct the communication to her.  Thanks again David Merrill@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/09/2000 05:59 AM 
Dear Steve:   Last month while at my reunion at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, some of the school officials told me that Enron has hired about eight Fletcher graduates recently and is happy with them.   The school is also happy and wants to strengthen its relationship with Enron.   They had earlier this year contacted a Laura Kalmans, Director of Community Development at Enron, to discuss various ideas for cooperation with Enron that would strengthen our capacity in environmental matters and give the students exposure to real world issues, but nothing happened and they lost contact. They asked me who they should contact to find out how to pursue this and I said I thought it might be you or someone under you.    They now want to send a letter to someone at Enron on this proposal.  It is OK if it is addressed to you or should I tell them another name?   Please advise me how to steer them in the right direction. Many thanks.  David Merrill 
Dear Ambassador Merrill, I understand that you and Betsy Ginsberg had a conversation at reunion last month about a possible partnership between the Fletcher School and Enron.  Thank you for generously offering to help us explore this connection.  We believe there are strong synergies between Professor Bill Moomaw's International Environment and Resource Policy program and Enron's business model.  There is currently a strong recruiting relationship between Enron and Fletcher; there are nine Fletcherites at Enron at this time.  I'm confident that our strong recruiting relationship is a solid first step from which to launch an even stronger partnership. In order to explore expanding this relationship Ms. Elise Kalmans, Director of Community Development, agreed to arrange a meeting for Bill and me last spring. Unfortunately, the scheduling did not work out, and Ms. Kalmans then began a maternity leave so we had trouble identifying a new point of contact. I appreciate your suggestion that we aim to work through Stephen Kean.  As Senior Vice President for Public and Environmental and Government Affairs, he does sound like the ideal contact with whom to discuss Professor Moomaw's program and its students. How do you suggest we proceed?  Should we send a letter from Interim Dean Trachtman to ask if Mr. Kean would be willing to meet with Professor Moomaw?  May I mention that you suggested we write him? At Betsy's suggestion, I have attached the presentation outline we prepared for Enron, along with the letter we originally mailed to Elise.  I would be very interested in any suggestions you may have.  If you have any trouble opening the powerpoint file or word document, please let me know and I would be happy to mail or fax them.  Thank you again for your kind offer of assistance. Sincerely, Laura Karch Associate Director, External Relations Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy 617-627-2720 - IERP enron.ppt - enron Kalmans.doc 
Restructuring Today quotes Jeff at length on retail vs wholesale price caps. He does talk about protecting small customers with retail caps and highlights the more destructive nature of wholesale caps.  If you need a copy let me know. kmagruder@newpower.com on 09/09/2000 11:39:55 AM 
Thanks, Steve.  The message we received was that Jeff had said he'd take retail price caps to avoid wholesale price caps.  I know the press and listeners will distort things, so I take the reports with a grain of salt. We just hope that you and Dasovich will find a way, if asked, to stress the right way to take care of small customers - enhance competition and create a robust retail market. I know we all want the same result.  We just hope that with our roadshow beginning next week, Gene doesn't have to explain away any other perceived Enron slams on retail competition. P. S.  I can't think of two better spokesmen for the cause of competition than you and Dasovich. Steven J Kean@ENRON 09/08/2000 06:03 PM Sent by:  Steven J Kean@ENRON 
Got your message.  I'm testifying at the Congressional hearing and Dasovich is covering FERC.  I think Jeff's comments were taken out of context.  He said policymakers do need to take care of small customers whose bills are tripling.  Frankly, we'd get slaughtered if we said anything else.  But he also said there is a right way and a wrong way to do it.  Enron and others had provided a market based answer by offering a fixed price deal to SDG&E (which would have enabled them to cap rates to those who had not switched. California elected instead to cap rates and deficit spend (ie create a deferral account).  I don't think we can stand for anything that doesn't protect the small customers, but we can continue to emphasize the market based solutions.  One of the messages in my testimony will be: customers should be encouraged to choose.  Those who did are doing fine. 
I have also received regrets from Horton, but confirmation from Metts 
Unfortunately, Mark Frevert is unable to attend the Enron Advisory Council Meeting on 16-17 September as he will be attending Analyst meetings with Mark Koenig in London and Brussels.  Please accept his apologies. Regards Nicki 
Contact Dave Parquet and Jeff Dasovich in our San Fran. office.  Dave has worked on Enron's proposals to San Diego and Jeff has been supporting him from a gov't/reg affairs standpoint. 
Let me know when and where. 
fyi mike 
As part of our commitment to responsible business practices around the worl= d,=20 we have recently launched a Corporate Responsibility function at Enron.  Th= e=20 further development, implementation and ultimate success of this effort wil= l=20 depend upon the participation and coordination of the business units and=20 regions. To that end, we are launching a Corporate Responsibility task force, which = I=20 will chair.  The roles of this task force will include developing and=20 coordinating social and environmental policies, strategy, and information= =20 among the Enron business units; monitoring alignment of business activities= =20 with corporate responsibility goals; and providing a forum for business uni= ts=20 to share issues and develop a consistent strategy.  Kelly Kimberly, Senior= =20 Vice President of Corporate Responsibility, and also of Marketing=20 Communication and Public Relations for Enron Broadband Services, will lead= =20 the overall corporate responsibility initiative.  Additionally, because of= =20 their interest and experience working on these issues, Paula Rieker, Mark= =20 Schroeder and Rob Walls have already volunteered to represent their=20 respective business units on the task force. As a leader at Enron, I am seeking your participation, support and=20 leadership.  I am asking the head of each business unit or major corporate= =20 function to either participate personally or designate a VP-or-higher level= =20 individual to serve as a member of the task force.  I look forward to your= =20 organization=01,s participation. The first task force meeting will be in Houston from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m= . =20 Please choose one of the dates listed below, note your designee, and respon= d=20 to Stacy Walker by Tuesday, September 19, by fax at 713-646-3248, or by pho= ne=20 at 713-853-3583.  Additional details, such as an agenda and a meeting=20 location, will follow. October 3 _____    October 25     _____ October 4 _____   Designee _________________________ Thanks. Joe 
I am going to copy Phillippe Bibi (Chief Technology Officer) and Cindy Olson (EVP-HR).  Please put someone in touch with Chris.  Thanks 
Here it is. Peggy Mahoney@EES 09/12/2000 11:19 AM 
Can I plez have a copy of Steve's testimony from yesterday in San Diego? Thanks Peggy 
calendar 
Ken: I have invited the following individuals to join us at the 3 pm Thursday meeting to review the draft of your Columbus speech on the natural gas situation. Hamd Alhkayat--Hamd has replaced Andrew Miles in the rotation and will be helping me with your presentations as well as being the lead with Jeff's speeches. Shelley Corman--Shelley has been developing messages for the current and anticipated gas situation and pipeline safety for the gas pipeline group. (The safety issue could come up in your Q&A.) Stinson Gibner--Stinson is with the research group that has generated some of the more complex slides in your draft dealing with volatility and historic futures pricing. Gil Muhl--Gil markets gas products to customers and is speaking at an AGA conference on the gas supply and price situation the day before your talk. His group is focusing on new products to help end-users with winter volatility.  I have asked Gil to send you his presentation as well for the meeting. Back to your presentation (the draft slides of which I am delivering to you today), Dan Yergin thought it would be appropriate for you to give an overview of the situation as the ""teacher"" or ""professor.""  Some questions that you could address would include: Where has the industry come from, and what lessons have we learned? How is the business different today? What public policy conclusions are implicit in this history? I think our comparative advantage over the specialists who will be presenting before and after your keynote is that you have ""been there"" in the evolution of the natural gas market, and Enron is at the forefront of helping customers deal with price and supply uncertainty.  There is also a good opportunity to stress the need for new industry ""best practices"" (more hedging) and the right public policies to deal with this issue (from ""do no harm"" to expanding incentives in the market). - Rob 
The PAC did not give the money.  PAC contributions to federal candidates are limited.  The money was a combination of individual contributions Ken solicited and soft money donations to the Republican Party. 09/12/2000 10:33 AM Erin Rice Erin Rice Erin Rice 09/12/2000 10:33 AM 09/12/2000 10:33 AM 
I think I understand why people get confused now.  See below, in blue.....  I know you mean the Enron PAC has contributed more than $615k to the Bush campaign (right?), but it reads like Enron Corp gave money directly to Bush. It's a complicated issue -- which I am hoping to simplify with my story!  I'm going to use the second quote below in the article. 
fyi 
Sanjay: Some information of possible interest to you. I attended a meeting this afternoon of the Coalition of Service Industries, one of the lead groups promoting a wide range of services including energy services in the upcoming WTO GATTS 2000 negotiations. CSI President Bob Vastine was in Delhi last week and met with CII to discuss the upcoming WTO. CII apparently has a committee looking into the WTO. Bob says that he told them that energy services was among the CSI recommendations and he recalls that CII said that they too have an interest. Since returning from the meeting I spoke with Kiran Pastricha and told her the above. She actually arranged the meeting in Delhi. She asked that I send her the packet of materials we distributed last week in Brussels and London. One of her associates is leaving for India tomorrow and will take one of these items to Delhi. Joe Joe Hillings 09/08/99 11:57 AM 
Sanjay: First some information and then a request for your advice and involvment. A group of US companies and associations formed the US WTO Energy Services Coalition in late May and has asked the US Government to include ""energy services"" on their proposed agenda when the first meeting of the WTO GATTS 2000 ministerial convenes late this year in Seattle. Ken Lay will be among the CEO speakers. These negotiations are expected to last three years and cover a range of subjects including agriculture, textiles, e-commerce, investment, etc. This morning I visited with Sudaker Rao at the Indian Embassy to tell him about our coalition and to seek his advice on possible interest of the GOI. After all, India is a leader in data processing matters and has other companies including ONGC that must be interested in exporting energy services. In fact probably Enron and other US companies may be engaging them in India and possibly abroad. Sudaker told me that the GOI has gone through various phases of opposing the services round to saying only agriculture to now who knows what. He agrees with the strategy of our US WTO Energy Services Coalition to work with companies and associations in asking them to contact their government to ask that energy services be on their list of agenda items. It would seem to me that India has such an interest. Sudaker and I agree that you are a key person to advise us and possibly to suggest to CII or others that they make such a pitch to the GOI Minister of Commerce. I will ask Lora to send you the packet of materials Chris Long and I distributed in Brussels and London last week. I gave these materials to Sudaker today. Everyone tells us that we need some developing countries with an interest in this issue. They may not know what we are doing and that they are likely to have an opportunity if energy services are ultimately negotiated. Please review and advise us how we should proceed. We do need to get something done in October. Joe PS Terry Thorn is moderating a panel on energy services at the upcoming World Services Congress in Atlanta. The Congress will cover many services issues. I have noted in their materials that Mr. Alliwalia is among the speakers but not on energy services. They expect people from all over the world to participate. 
As promised, here are the notes from which I spoke on Friday. - Enron on Calif. crisis 9-7-00.doc 
Dear Steven: Just to refresh your memory ... we met in June to discuss future job prospects at Enron.  At that time, you had offered to get me in touch with someone in the Finance Division (?) at Enron to discuss similar topics.  I am sorry to bother you with matters such as this, but I am still very interested in a position with Enron and would like to follow through on this offer, if you are still willing.  As an aside, another contact gave me the name of Rob Bradley and suggested that I get in touch with him.  I don't know if that is who you had in mind, or not. I am moving my wife to Houston next week, and will be available to meet any time from Friday, August 4 until Thursday, August 10.  After that, I leave for a conference in Seattle, but will back in Houston for one day on Thursday, August 17th. As for my timetable (which at the time you had told me to keep you apprised of), I will continue in my position at K-State for the Fall semester.  After that, I'm a free man.  I have a couple of academic offers for temporary positions in the Spring, one at Rice and one at UT-Austin. The latter is very appealing, but would require my absence from home during the weeks.  As such, I am still wide open beginning in January. In spite of the fact that I awoke at 3:30AM in order to get to the airport the day that I met Jim Steffes and you, I got a lot out of our meeting.  I was very impressed with Enron and what you had to say, and am hopeful about future prospects with the company.  I remain very interested in a future position at Enron, and perhaps in Public and Government Affairs (I hope I have that right). Thank you for everything.  I hope that you had a nice vacation. Sincerely, Mike Sadler ****************************************************************************** * Michael A. Sadler Assistant Professor Department of Economics Kansas State University 320 Waters Hall Manhattan, KS  66506 (785) 532-4574 (785) 532-6919 (fax) msadler@ksu.edu http://www.ksu.edu/economics/msadler/ 
attached is a copy of my california testimony.  The proceeding was somewhat productive, but turned into a witch hunt at a couple of points.  Our view on this is:  the problem is fairly straightforward (demand increases and new supplies are inhibited so prices go up and shortages ensue ... sound familiar?) and the solutions are straightforward (site the power plants suppliers are begging to build, let the utilities hedge outside the exchange, and finish the job of opening the interstate grid so power can get from where it is to where it is needed). What it comes down to at this point is FERC is the only entity with the authority to start fixing this problem now:  Congress isn't going to get anything done this year and the California legislature is (thankfully) out of session now.  Our political leaders need to give FERC the room they need to act. Good luck on your speech and give me a call sometime. 
Attached is my testimony. 
Anybody at the CFTC or on the hill we want to send brochures to? 
Steven, I understand you indicated to Louise Kitchen the other day that you may wish to provide a list of contacts to receive brochures about EnronOnline. Could you please confirm if you wish to do this, and if so, send me the list so I can ensure that it is included in the mailing? Thanks, Dave 
Cynthia, get back to Jeff on this.  It doesn't look like a high priority to me, but I will absolutely defer to your judgment. 
Jeff - Chris is on point on this issue.  He and Dan Reck have already spoken. 
Business Heats Up 
Business Heats Up FYI - not sure if you guys saw this!  Still looking for a corporate customer to go on record. Peggy 
I talked with Scott Tholan and he immediately understood your concerns.  I don't think there is anything else you need to do right now.  Let me know, though, if there are requests for information you consider inappropriate. 
I'm still waiting for Davis' office to call.  The plan currently is for me to talk to him when and if he calls.  Sandi has been in touch with the governor's office. By the way, thanks for the summary of the California proceedings.  I talked to Hebert yesterday and he was duly impressed with your remarks ... I had to remind him that you worked on the right answers for California, not the abomination that's in place today. Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/13/2000 06:48 PM 
Preempt me, please! Jeff Dasovich@EES 09/13/2000 06:22 PM 
GOVERNOR DAVIS PRESSES FERC FOR ACTION ON WHOLESALE POWER RATES: Calls on Federal Regulators to Reduce Prices, Issue Refunds GOVERNOR DAVIS NAMES KAHN CHAIR OF THE GOVERNOR'S CLEAN ENERGY GREEN TEAM OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- PR00:238 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 12, 2000 GOVERNOR DAVIS PRESSES FERC FOR ACTION ON WHOLESALE POWER RATES Calls on Federal Regulators to Reduce Prices, Issue Refunds SAN DIEGO - At a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) hearing today in San Diego, Governor Gray Davis reiterated his call to federal regulators to intervene ""to the fullest extent possible"" to lower electricity prices in California. ""FERC bears responsibility to ensure that a workably competitive market exists before California consumers and California's economy are subjected to unconstrained, market-based electricity prices,"" said Governor Davis in a statement read by Energy Oversight Board Chairman Michael Kahn. ""Consequently, I renew my prior request that the Commission act with utmost speed to intervene to the fullest extent possible to restore wholesale prices to fair levels and to remedy harms that have resulted from the 
I will attend. 
Joe Hartsoe and Jeff Skilling are scheduled to meet with FERC Commissioners Bailey, Massey, Hoecker and Breathitt on September 22 in the afternoon.    If you would like to attend or have suggestions on others who should attend, please call Joe Hartsoe at (202) 466-9150 or Sarah Novosel at (202) 466-9160 as soon as possible to let them know.  We will also need the bio of anyone planning on attending these meetings. Thanx 
I wuold like to attend if my calendar is open 
Hi: Will you be attending the BIPAC Board Meeting and Annual Dinner on October 5th?  If so, will you need hotel accommodations?  I have a couple of rooms set aside if you do.  Let me know.  Thanks. 
Energy 
F.Y.I. Business; Financial Desk State's Power Grid Again Pushed to Brink of Rolling Blackouts Energy: High temperatures, generator shutdowns push usage within 5% of capacity. Heat wave is expected to continue today. NANCY RIVERA BROOKS 09/19/2000 Los Angeles Times Home Edition Page C-1 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company Sweltering weather across California pushed the state's heat-stressed electricity grid close to meltdown Monday, and state power officials urged electricity conservation because today and Wednesday could be even worse. Power was cut to hundreds of large business customers and about 125,000 residential and business air-conditioner and agricultural pumping customers Monday after the California Independent System Operator, which runs the electricity grid for about 75% of the state, declared a Stage 2 power emergency. At Stage 2, when the grid is using more than 95% of available power, the state's big investor-owned utilities are asked to interrupt power to customers that have agreed to this voluntary action in exchange for discounted rates. Grid reliability was threatened when two electricity units in Northern California stopped working for a time as heavy air-conditioner demand began to push power use higher, Cal-ISO spokeswoman Stephanie McCorkle said. Demand peaked at about 42,000 megawatts on the Cal-ISO grid, but the two unidentified units, representing about 320 megawatts of generation, were returned to service in the afternoon--in time to help keep the state from reaching its first Stage 3, which would lead to neighborhood blackouts. ""We were right on the edge of warning about a possible Stage 3,"" McCorkle said. ""A couple of generators fell offline in late morning, and that kind of gave everybody 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California 
Maureen -- please send Vince my California testimony and the talking point presentation for Jeff Skilling at the National Press Club. Eliz-- keep Vince on the distribution list for the documents we are generating now to repond to the California situation. 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California 
FYI.  I am sending Vince some materials we have used 
Steve, I am a lead recruiter at the University of California at Berkeley for Enron Analyst/Associate program. I contacted several friends who work at Berkeley and received an invitation from one of them to make a presentation at the weekly Faculty Seminar of the Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The students and faculty members from the business school will be also invited. Berkeley in general, and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in particular, are important centers of academic research on electricity markets (S. Oren works very closely with Severin Borenstein). My presentation will focus on the Analyst/Associate program. I shall  also have an opportunity to discuss the power markets in California (I expect many questions) before many experts who are very  important to shaping public opinion and regulatory agenda. Please, let me know who in you group could help me in preparing this presentation and in presenting  Enron's point of view in a more effective way. Vince FYI. The name of my friend who invited me: Shmuel S. Oren, Professor Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research 4117 Etcheverry Hall University of California 
Please forward to Advisory Committee 
Manager's Journal: Heir to Greatness By Gary Hamel 09/18/2000 The Wall Street Journal A38 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Sometime in the next few months, the board of General Electric will anoint a successor to the world's most celebrated corporate leader. Running GE may be, as Jack Welch claims, the best job in the world, but his successor may find it to be one of the toughest as well -- not because anything is going wrong at GE, but because so much is going right, and has been for so long. Mr. Welch's successor will inherit a company that is already stupendously valuable, that has already shed most of its unwanted pounds, and has already set a string of performance records. How do you do better than that? This is more than a rhetorical question for GE's next chairman. Pity, for a moment, a few other heirs to greatness. Doug Ivester was gone just 25 months after following the legendary Roberto Goizueta at Coca-Cola. Dale Morrison lasted less than four years at Campbell Soup after taking over from cost-cutter extraordinaire David Johnson. British Airway's Bob Ayling got pushed out after he had struggled unsuccessfully to fill the shoes of Colin Marshall. And Durk Jager prematurely stepped down as Procter & Gamble's chairman after failing to live up to the lofty standards set by earlier P&G leaders. Pretenders None of the pretenders succeeded in building greatness on top of greatness. In three of these cases, the board brought back a recently retired CEO or chairman to shore up investor confidence. Sadly, Goizueta, who died in October 1997, could not reprise his earlier success at Coca-Cola. GE's next chairman will have to exceed Mr. Welch's near-mythic accomplishments if GE is to continue to fly high. Like Cisco, Intel, Wal-Mart, Nokia and any other company that is exploring the outer atmosphere, GE must struggle ever harder to resist the laws that threaten to flatten the arc of success: the law of large numbers, the law of diminishing returns, and the law of averages. -- The law of large numbers: Over the past decade GE's market value has multiplied eleven-fold -- to more than $560 billion from $50 billion at the end of 1990. Sustaining such a breathtaking pace of value growth gets progressively harder as a company gets bigger. As the most valuable company on the planet, GE would need to grow its market cap to nearly $3 trillion over the next five years to match the 42% compounded annual growth rate it has achieved over the past half-decade. One way of escaping the law of large numbers is to divide big things into small things. One option for GE would be to spin out its low-growth businesses as separate companies. Over the past five years, profits in two sectors -- appliances and plastics -- were essentially flat. Holding these businesses may generate a positive return on invested capital, but no investor would keep them inside a growth portfolio. Why should GE? If GE's next chairman can't muster the courage to leave the dawdlers behind, perhaps he -- or she -- should spin out the stars. Of the eight large business segments for which GE reports results, two -- GE Capital and NBC -- account for nearly 50% of GE's five-year profit growth. Sure, GE Capital has benefited from its parent's dirt-cheap cost of capital, but from an investor's point of view, these advantages may be more than offset by the drag of laggardly earnings growth in other GE businesses. Looking beyond capital and broadcasting, there are probably a dozen other high-growth candidates for spin-outs in GE's other sectors. Mr. Welch's successor shouldn't be afraid to disassemble GE. After all, the goal is not to make GE the ""world's most valuable company,"" but to make its shareholders the world's most richly rewarded. Shareholders don't care whether GE's stock appreciates or whether it's the stock of companies that GE has disgorged. Breaking up is hard to do. But Mr. Welch's successor may find that turning GE into the world's first $3 trillion company is even harder. -- The law of diminishing returns: Even the most successful strategies lose their potency over time. For most of Mr. Welch's tenure, GE's strategies of choice have been cost cutting and acquisitions. From its unflinching approach to downsizing in the mid-1980s, to its more recent dedication to e-business, Mr. Welch's GE has been imaginative and unrelenting in excising waste. At the same time, GE's top line has been buoyed up by a tidal wave of acquisitions -- more than 300 in the past three years, many outside the U.S. The payoff to all this cutting and deal making has been steadily accelerating earnings growth. Net earnings grew 10.8% in 1996, 12.7% in 1997, 13.3% in 1998 and 15.3% in 1999. Looking forward, power dieting and binge buying may not be enough to keep GE's earnings escalator rising ever skyward. There are already signs that GE may be nearing the asymptotic end of the efficiency curve. Between 1981 and 1990, GE's revenue per employee increased by 187%. Yet over the last decade, revenue per employee grew by a more modest 55%, and has been essentially flat since 1996. And while operating margins in GE's manufacturing businesses have been steadily improving, GE's net profit margin, after all adjustments, has remained pretty much unchanged over the past five years. What about acquisitions? While industry consolidation still has a way to run, particularly outside the U.S., it seems inevitable that it will become harder and harder for GE to find under-priced, under-managed fixer-uppers. After all, at the current furious pace of corporate coupling, the U.S. would be left with a single company by 2010. That leaves ""e."" E-commerce will drive new efficiencies into GE's business processes, but GE is not alone in striving to e-enable its businesses. E-commerce is rapidly becoming an information technology arms race -- with competitors making tit-for-tat investments to reap tit-for-tat efficiency gains. And while efficiency-besotted CEOs are counting on the Internet to shrink procurement costs, savvy customers will be just as creative in using the Net to beat down prices. Whether GE's enthusiasm for all things ""e"" produces long-lasting, peer-beating profit growth remains to be seen. GE's next chairman may want to borrow a lesson or two from Enron, which has been voted America's most innovative company five years running and displaced GE as the ""best managed company"" in Fortune magazine's last ""most admired"" survey. Forty percent of Enron's $63 billion market value comes from businesses the company wasn't even in three years ago -- all of them are homegrown. Forget acquisitions. With GE's powerful brand, global reach and fearsome capacity for execution, there's no reason GE shouldn't surpass Enron as a business-building champ. It is entirely reasonable to expect that GE could create 10 to 20 new businesses over the next few years -- with each adding an average of $5 billion to GE's market value. Sooner or later GE is going to need an entirely new genre of wealth-creating strategies -- and a much more aggressive commitment to internally generated new business development may well be the most promising candidate. -- The law of averages: Over the past five years, GE's price/earnings ratio has tripled, from just over 16 to more than 48. The company is currently selling at a 65% premium to the market average P/E. But being a standout performer for more than a few years at a time is a daunting challenge for any company, large or small. It seems that no company can forever escape the steady tug of mediocrity. At the end of 1999, the Standard & Poor's 500 included 326 companies that had been in the index for the entire decade. Fifty-five of these companies, among them GE, managed to deliver top quartile shareholder returns in as many as four years out of the previous 10. GE's top quartile results came in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. If GE's new chairman manages to extend this streak for another four years, GE will set a new world record, for none of the 326 S&P veterans achieved top quartile returns in as many as eight years out of 10 during the '90s, and only four companies -- Oracle, Home Depot, Intel and Cisco -- cleared the bar seven years out of 10. If GE can fire up the entrepreneurial spirit in each of its employees, it just might beat the odds. Like most large companies, GE seems to be reluctant to encourage employees to start new businesses by giving them equity stakes in new ventures. While this isn't the only way to build businesses, it's one that can't be ignored in a world where talented employees are often lured away by the promise of a big chunk of equity in a start-up. GE already invests in start-ups via GE Equity -- to the tune of $1.5 billion in 1999. Last year GE also repurchased $1.9 billion of its own stock. One wonders just what kind of new wealth GE's own employees might have been able to create if they had been backed by this kind of capital? To have any hope of escaping Mr. Welch's shadow, and matching his success, GE's next chairman will have to keep a simple truth in mind: If you're trying to achieve unprecedented ends, you're going to need unprecedented means. A break-up, a few major spin-outs, a bottom-to-top initiative focused on making GE as good at creating bold new businesses as it is at improving existing businesses, an absolute commitment to doubling or tripling GE's internal growth rate -- these are all potential candidates for the next big thing at GE. Maybe, just maybe, GE will continue to fly high with its current success recipes. One could argue that as long as there are companies around the world that aren't as well-managed as GE, Mr. Welch's magnificent buy-and-improve engine will have plenty of fuel. Or that GE's Web-smitten executives will discover Net advantages no one else has yet dreamed of. After 20 years under Mr. Welch, GE is habituated to meeting new challenges. Moreover, GE has a long history of organizational and managerial innovation -- it was among the first to decentralize along business unit lines, embrace disciplined strategic planning, delayer its hierarchical organization, and commit itself to becoming Webified from stem to stern. Like the Internet, GE is diverse, global, flat, meritocratic and non-hierarchical. Maybe all of this will help GE to become one of the first companies to marry the rule-busting, business-building ethos of the ""new economy"" with the ""old economy"" virtues of scale, efficiency and quality. If GE succeeds, there will be no more talk of new economy and old economy, for GE will have managed to create a perfect synthesis of old and new. And the most perfectly developed specimen of the industrial age will have become the archetype for the post-industrial corporation -- a company that uses its size and operational excellence to crush the upstarts, and its industry-transforming innovation to constantly surprise the old farts. This is a worthy, and necessary, aspiration for the next leader of America's pre-eminent corporation. Mr. Hamel is chairman of Strategos, a consulting company based in Menlo Park, Calif. He is author of ""Leading the Revolution"" (Harvard Business School Press, 2000). Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Spiraling energy costs creating near-crisis situation The heat is on consumers Monday, September 17, 2000 By DAVID IVANOVICH Copyright 2000 Houston Chronicle Washington Bureau http://www.chron.com/cs/CDA/printstory.hts/topstory/670583 Abreast of the Market S&P Index Seemed Tranquil This Year, but... By E.S. Browning Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 09/18/2000 The Wall Street Journal C1 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Amid the storm that has swept the Nasdaq Composite Index this year, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index looks like a sea of tranquility. Since Jan. 1, it has gone almost exactly nowhere, starting the year at 1469.25 and closing Friday at 1465.81. But beneath the quiet surface, a furious battle is raging among the S&P's components, with some of last year's losers becoming this year's winners. Some of the most amazing performers are the natural-gas companies, which are up about 70% as a group so far this year. ""The natural-gas index looks like an Internet stock from a year ago,"" says Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist at Merrill Lynch. El Paso Energy is up 70% so far this year. KeySpan Energy is up almost 60%. On top of its stock gain, KeySpan offers something some investors aren't familiar with: a 5% dividend. Now the big question is, should investors be plowing their money into the recent winners, which also include drug stocks, brokerage-firm stocks and bank stocks? Or is their surge a flash in the pan that will evaporate as investors get over their jitters in the fall? Higher oil prices helped send utility stocks up on Friday, and most other stocks down. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.45%, or 160.47 points, to 10927.00, leaving the blue-chip index down 2.62%, or 293.65 points, for the week. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 2.01% on the day and 3.6% on the week. The Dow Jones Utility Average, however, rose 1.52%, or 5.94 points, on Friday to a record 397.04, leaving it up 2.78% on the week. The S&P 500, still the broadest of the major market indexes, dropped 1% on Friday. But it is just 4% off its record of 1527.46, set March 24. In contrast, the technology-heavy Nasdaq index is down 24% from its March 10 high. Within the S&P 500, though, there have been some dramatic moves. Utilities are up an astounding 40%, just in the time since the S&P peaked on March 24, according to Ned Davis Research. Financials and drug stocks are up about 16% each -- again, since the S&P hit a record. Communications stocks, on the other hand, have fallen 25% in that period. The S&P 500's big tech stocks are down more than 19%. Some analysts think the move that is under way is broader than a sector rotation. Some of the least-wanted stocks of 1999 have become desirable this year. As huge stocks, such as Qualcomm and Yahoo!, have sagged, smaller, once-neglected S&P companies, such as Reebok and Allied Waste, have soared. The switch can be seen in an index called the Value Line Arithmetic Index. That index tracks about 1,700 companies and doesn't give any extra weight to the ones with a larger market value. It is a closer reflection of the average company, rather than the biggest companies. So far this year, it is up 13%, eclipsing the S&P 500. The S&P 500 is weighted according to its members' market value, which means that it is dominated by the larger stocks. The Value Line index's strength compared with the S&P 500 is a clear indication that some of the smaller stocks are making a comeback, at least for now. Some of the gains do seem to reflect special circumstances. Utilities have been helped by an explosion in natural-gas prices and by a search for stable investments in a turbulent stock market. Many banks and brokerage firms have benefited from takeover speculation: Merrill Lynch is up 66% so far this year; Lehman Brothers is up 69%. If takeover expectations fade, the brokerage stocks risk a slide. And energy companies depend on oil and gas prices, which can make them volatile. Natural-gas bulls note, however, that natural-gas prices are expected to remain high for some time, which could keep propelling that group ahead. ""Very few people thought energy prices would remain this high for as long as they have,"" notes Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette investment strategist Thomas Galvin. ""So you still have people underweighted both areas, energy and 
Please advise.  Thanks, SRS 
Dear?Jeff, ? Greetings from Austin.? On behalf of Governor Bush, it  is my pleasure to invite you to join?the Governor's  IT National Steering Committee.??You have been?recognized as a technology?leader whose experience and insight  would?be a valuable addition to the group.? The three  requirements for joining are: 1)?Public support of Governor  Bush. 2)?Willingness to comment on  policy issues. 3)?Help in finding other  technology leaders to join the group. The group was formed last fall and is composed primarily of technology leaders (Michael Dell, John Chambers, Floyd Kvamme, Gordon Moore, Jim Barksdale,?Scott McNealy,  plus many others).??NSC members are Republicans, Democrats, and  Independents who support Governor  Bush.?? ? In July, the group met here in Austin  to discuss burning issues in the technology community and to share them with  Governor Bush in a private meeting(the AP  wire story describing the event is at bottom).??To  give you a better idea of the nature and composition of the group, I have  attached a pdf file?of  an?April ad?that ranin USA Today?that  includes?a declaration of support by NSC members for Governor  Bush. ? If you are interested in joining the NSC, please provide the  following: Full Name (and preferred name) - e.g., Timothy R. Smith (Tim) Preferred Email Company Title Mailing Address Phone/Fax Name of Assistant (if  relevant) Acceptance  of?the three membership requirements listed  above Please do not hesitate to contact me with  any questions.? As we come  closer to the election, we are focusing primarily?on recruiting new members  to join the NSC and?keeping members abreast and plugged into campaign  events and policy matters, especially those that relate to New Economy and  technology issues. ? Best regards, ? Price Roe on behalf of Dr. Bill Rice ? P.S.? I recently graduated  from?HBS and think it would be great to?get another highly  accomplished HBS?alum like you on board in support of the Governor. ? __________________ ? Price Roe Bush for President Strategy Group 512-344-4737 proe@georgewbush.com www.georgewbush.com ? Bush meeting with high-tech council JIM VERTUNO, Wednesday  July 19, 8:53 am Associated Press Writer AUSTIN, Texas (AP)???Gov. George W. Bush wants to compare  notes on issues ranging from Internet privacy, to cyber crime to closing the  so-called ``digital divide'' that sometimes leaves minority households behind in  the computer age during a planned Wednesday meeting with technology leaders.  About 130 members of the Bush campaign's 350-member high-tech council, including  Dell Computer Corp. chairman Michael Dell, were scheduled to meet behind closed  doors at Austin's Jewish Community Center.?. . ``I am excited  about all of the opportunities that technology has given us to make a profound  and positive impact on the world,'' said Bush, the presumptive Republican  presidential nominee. ``America is a pioneer in the high-tech industry and it is  vital for us to maintain this status,'' Bush said. '' Leading the world in  innovation will not only improve the lives of Americans, but will also create  many quality jobs.'' The purpose of the meeting was to allow the group to  present Bush with their thoughts and share up-to-the minute information on the  issues, said Bush campaign spokesman Tucker Eskew. The campaign also was to  unveil its revamped Web site. One of its features will allow users to download event-specific posters or placards for campaign events. ? ? - USATodayAd-Bush NSC.pdf 
I approve. 
Steve - Please forward to Eileen Buerkert with your approval. Eileen - Per our discussion, please make sure these are the black flatscreens. Thanks! 
Elizabeth, Because of the dollar amount of this PO, I need to have an email approval from your senior director.  Could you forward this to the appropriate party (if it's not you) and have him/her email me back with a note saying ""approved"" on it?  I will fax this immediately after I receive that.  Thank you!! Eileen Buerkert IT Sourcing and Procurement 713-345-6272 
Any problem? please advise Don. 
The letter looks fine.  Set it up as ""your letter to Ken Lay was forwarded to me for response"" and have Jeff B sign.  Thanks Marcia A Linton 09/20/2000 04:04 PM 
Here is the draft letter to Bob Houck from Ken Lay that Jeff Brown asked me to forward to you. 
I talked to Hettie today.  It's unlikely that we are going to find time for Jeff and the Governor to talk (because of the Governor's schedule).  We'll try to set something up later.  In the meantime, the Governor should just sign the bill.  Of course, Hettie had already communicated this; the Gov's office acknowledged that the message was recieved but did not make a specific 
Any interest? 
I agree with Mark's points.  While we have advocated our merger with PGE (which did not concentrate market power) we have intervened in opposition to most others.  Moreover, there is some hope that the German government will take the opportunity to use the proposed utility merger to force greater open access.   We will likely encourage that action and may oppose the merger otherwise.   Most mergers in this industry are defensive, not procompetitive, and, in my view, deserve no credit for convergence, innovation, or liberlization. 
Margaret - apologies for the delay in getting comments to you on your speech.  Due to press of other matters I will be brief. First, your speech caption, refernecing ""mergers"" is somewhat different than the topic shown in the agenda, i.e., ""Industry Structure and Competitive Behaviour"", but I trust you are wroking that out with the BIEE. Second, in your first paragraph, you note that developments in the energy sector over the last decade are due to the mergers of the last five years (a point I will retrun to later), but in any event, not entirely consistent in terms of timeframes. Third, I am surprised that the Enron Corp. view is that gas and electricity markets grew as they did over the decade due to mergers.  In the past, things like unbundling and non-discriminatory third-party access have featured prominently in our advocacy.  Indeed, though it was not my role at Enron, I would have thought that in many of the recent electricity mergers pre-dating Order No. 888 we would have joined the chorus of voices arguing that these mergers concentrated market power, and that such market power could only be mitigated with the provision of non-discriminatory third-party access (an argument we will be repeating in, e.g., Germany, as noted below).  Finally, I would note that in the past, I thought we had questioned the value of mergers as an impediment to competitive markets, as I recall Ken Rice gave an 
Reque sted 
Decline. Rosalee Fleming 09/21/2000 05:29 PM 
sted Is this something we want to do? 
sted To Alliance Board and Associates: As you may know, President Clinton is considering releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, perhaps as early as the next several days. Regardless of what you think about release of oil from the Reserve, I hope you will help us take advantage of this opportunity to encourage the President to renew his efforts to pursue energy efficiency - our nation's best long-term response to rising oil imports. Due to the immediacy of the decision, we ask that you let us know if we can sign you on, no later than this Monday, September 25 at noon Eastern. Please respond with sign ons (giving us the precise company/organization name) by reply email, or call Dave Hamilton or myself at 202-857-0666. Thank you for your consideration and support. David ============ David Nemtzow Alliance to Save Energy nemtzow@ase.org <mailto:nemtzow@ase.org> ph: (202) 857-0666 fax: (202) 331-9588 http://www.ase.org <http://www.ase.org> 
I think it looks fine; will defer to Jeff's edits. Jeannie Mandelker@ECT 09/21/2000 05:05 PM 
Steve, this is the column I mentioned to you Monday. We do a column under Mark's name for ENA's customer magazine, Exchange. This month's topic is California. I'd like you to read it and see if we are getting the message right. Jeff, please let me know if there are errors. Once we get your comments, we'll show it to Mark. Thanks, Jeannie 
Thanks.   Please keep me on the list for the more detailed management report as well. Leonardo Pacheco 09/21/2000 05:36 PM 
Please find attached the current copy of the EnronOnline Daily Public Report and Key Messages, including slides and statistics for public consumption. The information contained in the attachments can be communicated to audiences outside the company and should be used to ensure that we present a consistent message to the public. Please ensure that this email is distributed to anyone in your group who needs to discuss EnronOnline with individuals outside the company. Please note that this report is not intended to be used as a stand-alone presentation, nor that all the information be used in a single presentation or customer communication. 
attached is Sen. Hagel's energy speech.  He focusses on oil primarily but also does a nice job of framing the importance of sound energy policy to our continued economic growth. 
Ken wanted to make sure you saw this speech. 
Rosalee: I understand that Ken Lay and Senator Hagel will be together this evening at the Horatio Alger event I believe in Williamsburg. The attachment is the speech Chuck gave this week before ESI and Ken may find it helpful in some discussion tonight. Joe 
I thought you might be interested in seeing a copy of a speech on international energy policy that Sen. Hagel gave today at the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, D.C. - hagelesi.rtf 
At the end of the article there is a presidential straw poll.  It shows Bush with only a 6 point lead among oil and gas industry executives and analysts. 
fyi 
We can create significant mutual benefit by partnering with a firm which is focussed on developing IT systems for bulk power systems: We need to take our deregulation model to the next level of detail by having IT solutions which will support our view of how the market ought to work. The IT firm would benefit from our access to the policy makers (domestic and international)  whose decisions will make the IT firm's systems either successful or obsolete. Call me if you would like to discuss. 
To all--Steve Horn's Investment group has been approached to possibly invest in a company, Soft____, that makes EMS and tagging systems (which BPA is using and PGE may use).  We met w/ Shashi Patel of Steve's group today and discussed that there are competitors out there, including OATI, Alstom ESCA (who are partnered with Ross Perot).  Ross Perot has approached Enron about promoting its system in the Midwest ISO.   We used this system for Enron control area's EMS.  Ross Perot is going to contact Steve Kean to set up a meeting to show us his product.  Also, Kevin Presto thinks that OATI would be a good investment. Steve Kean--Steve Horn and Shashi Patel are interested in being included in a presentation by Perot. Sarah and Joe--Can you think of any FERC regulatory constraints that would limit Enron's ability to invest in one of the software providers to utilities/RTOS?  I couldn't think of any reason off hand. Thanks. 
Joe - could you or someone in the office get in touch with Michelle?  Thanks 
Steve, As mentioned in my voice mail, attached is the email from SHRM about the proposed amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act.  I believe that this legislation would be helpful to Enron.  Let me know if I can do anything to help. Thanks.  Michelle 
Brian / Michelle, I would take this as good news!! DCL 
I understand from Shelley that you are going to be seeing Commissioner Breathitt on Monday.  We have been working to persuade her to vote for forceful FERC action on electricity issues.  She is widely viewed as the swing vote (with Massey and Hoecker being the other two votes) needed for the Commission to take action.  Attached are two documents -- one is a set of talking points for you and the second is a FERC action plan that we are floating with several of the Commissioners. 
Washington DC 
Vista Hotel,1400 M Street 202-429-1799 202-728-0530 Panel discussion - Bill Darcy is the other panelist, will give overview and do a defensive speech.  You can discuss opportunities and give offensive speech.  He doesn't know how many people to expect, but will introduce you to some of the big people there.  He'll be passing out an outline of his point of view; you can use overheads, handouts, whatever you like.  Time is not yet set. 
fyi  - there has been some concern that this deal was being put together without Connecticut authorities knowing the full extent of our interest in FCEL. 
Guys, I have spoken to Cliff and Mark and we are comfortable moving forward under the structure we have discussed. FCEL: - $5MM in equity and 1.3MM warrants from corporate treasury stock that vest based upon 60MW of orders; - discussion with FCEL in which we disclose ALL infromation we have about the potential Conn. deal - I will require that myself and Mark be on   that call; - the transaction is fully press released immediately. CRRA: - subject to final due diligence on the development risks, we provide the management and wrap for CRRA on the potential fuel cell development opportunity that consists of between 25 and 50 MW; - any appropriation of funds from the government will require DPUC hearing at which we will fully disclose in a factual manner our interest in    FCEL. I will require that Mark Haedicke manage this process and sign off on all press releases, term sheets, disclosure discussions, contracts and regulatory filings.  I believe that we have this managed appropriately as long as we manage the process as per the script and in a factual manner. Thanks 
No special requirements, but it's good to keep track of in case we want a point of contact.  Thanks John Wack@EES 09/22/2000 05:05 PM 
Steve,  a recent hire within my group of Risk Management ,  Samuel  Harrell is on two energy associations.   They are the  Association of Energy Services Professionals International (AESP) and the American Association of Blacks in Energy (AABE).  Sam is a member of good standing in both and has recently been nominated to join the Board of Directors for the AESP.   I was not sure if Enron had any special requirements concerning registration of employees in associations or not.    If I need to do anything specific I would appreciate your guidance.  Hopefully this will work as the needed notice.    Thanks 
You should plan to be there. Michael Terraso 09/22/2000 06:12 PM 
Steve, am I not to attend the meeting with Lay and Skilling on Oct 4?  Mike 
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING MEETINGS: There will be 2 pre-meetings prior to the EBR with Lay & Skilling PRE-MEETINGS Attendees for both Pre-Meetings: Hardy (via phone), Kean, Linnell, Palmer, Schroeder, Shapiro, Steffes, Terraso DATE: Friday, Sept. 29 TIME:  8:30 a.m. (will last approx. 1 hour) PLACE: EB 4701 CALL IN #: 713-853-3233 PASSCODE: 6500 _____________________________________________________________________ DATE: Monday, Oct. 2 TIME:  8:30 a.m. (will last approx. 2 hours) PLACE: EB 4701 CALL IN #: 713-853-3233 PASSCODE: 6000 EBR MEETING W/ LAY & SKILLING Attendees:   Lay, Skilling, Kean, Palmer, Schroeder, Shapiro, Steffes DATE: Wednesday, Oct. 4 TIME:  9:30 a.m. (will last approx. 2 hours) PLACE: EB 5005 If you have any questions, please give me a call at 3-1808. 
I think he was looking to make a sector-wide point.  For example, how much of the total market moved to wholesale traded volumes?  He wants to make the point that even a nontraded commodity - ie electricity in 1994 - can rapidly progress to a traded market - as electricity did between 94 and 00. Margaret Carson 09/21/2000 04:25 PM 
Steve  I provided  Andy  West with  this  and the  35 percent  a year growth was compelling Marg. 
great news! Keep up the good work. Stephen D Burns 
The fat lady hasn't quite sung yet, but I thought it would be a good idea to give you a readout on the current status of the BLM/USFS fiber optic right-of-way issue. In a nutshell, our strategy seems to have worked and we've won all the concessions we sought.  As you'll recall these were: a) to get the BLM to withdraw any ""interim"" policies, the first of which split fiber cables into 144 different ROW certifications, and a later version that re-packaged the issue, mandating that ROW certificates be issued each time a fiber owner subleases or sells capacity on its line, with a retroactivity clause that added extra sting; b) to get the Forest Service to retract its May 2nd memorandum which changed its fiber optic ROW policy from published fee schedules to individual ""comparable"" assessments (the first such assessment, which compared ROW fees in urban centers in downtown Portland and Seattle to Oregon forest lands, increased the cost of a segment of our FTV fiber build 150 fold); c) to block both agencies from implementing any proposed or final rule in FY 2001; and d) to create an open rule making process that involves all interested stakeholders, including Enron. Thanks to the considerable pressure we orchestrated from Congress and the Administration, BLM Director Fry and USFS Chief Dombeck have backed away from points a and b above, and have agreed to points c and d.   The language we inserted in the Interior Appropriations Bill, which has been agreed to by the Conferees, forces both agencies to revert back to the published fee schedules, prevents them from implementing any new policies in FY 2001, and forces them to work with industry and to come up with a common policy for future rent determination. The reference in the opening sentence to gravitationally-challenged women is because the issue still hasn't quite closed.  The Interior Appropriations Bill may very well be vetoed.  But since our issue was settled at the staff level, and is now off the table, we're likely to remain safe from being re-examined and challenged.  In fact, any changes would likely only increase the strength of our hand: some members of our coalition are trying to insert even more detailed language in the report that prescribes exactly how the agencies will proceed to determine the new rental fee schedules over the next 18 months.  Through outside consultants, we've had a series of constructive discussions with the agencies over the past two weeks that have forged agreements on timing and specific ways forward.   Details are forthcoming, but Enron would be involved closely in the process.  The agencies were clearly surprised by the clout we wielded, and are now more than willing to negotiate. But the bottom line, again, is that we have stopped both agencies from implementing their costly interim policies or launching a rule making process either now (which they originally intended to do) or in the coming fiscal year.  And by engaging key Members of Congress and the White House, and organizing and leading the 20-member  Fiber Optic Public Land Right-of-Way Coalition, we've succeeded in branding Enron as a leader in the communications field. Steve 
any interest? 
Is this of interest to you? Eric 
Joe - there is no announcement today.  I tried to leave you a voicemail but apparently the system is down there. Before we can offer an outside person a VP position, the Executive Committee must sign off.  We are going to be going through that process in a few minutes.  Then we begin the offer extension and negotiations.  The person we are recommending is Linda Robertson, one of the two people I mentioned to you before. Please guard the information carefully.  Last time we talked, when the list had been narrowed to two, DeLay's office called with the exact two names and started pushing us to hire a Republican.  As you know we interviewed candidates of both political affiliations and just settled on the best person.  Ken told DeLay's office that's how we do things and Ken is comfortable (actually enthused) about the choice. When some external announcement is done, you will be involved and your 
Mary -- see attached Stacy Guidroz@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/22/99 09:36 PM 
The following is a message from Sanjay Bhatnagar: Organizational changes in India (South Asia) Region which includes India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. The team is lead by Sanjay Bhatnagar, CEO.  Wade Cline has joined the team as the Chief Operating Officer.  Other management appointments include: (1) Bobby Farris will lead all development efforts in the region (2) Raj Thapar will lead the M&A efforts (3) Bangladesh will continue to be managed by David Howe who will report in to Bobby Farris (4) P. Sreekumar leads up the accounting function as Chief Accounting Officer assisted by Carol Hoes  in Houston (5) Neil McGregor heads up the Dabhol Power Company as its President and reports directly into   Sanjay and Wade (6) Communication is currently being lead by Sanjay (7) Ranabir Dutt leads the Finance Team 
Looks good.  I think you implicitly say this, but I think you should make it more explicit: The continued growth of the new economy is threatened by our electricity infrastructure more than anything else. The high tech industry requires market driven solutions to reliability and pricing not the old style command and control regulated monopoly approach. Let's start getting the word out! Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 09/26/2000 02:06 PM 
Attached is a first rough cut.  Work continues but wanted to distribute for feedback.  All is welcome and appreciated. 
Thanks, I hope we get there soon. Mary Clark 09/26/2000 01:55 PM 
Steve, I'm leading a team with Beth Tilney that will roll out communications to employees worldwide after our stock price closes at $100.  We will keep you posted on our plans as they materialize. Mary 
yes lyoho@enron.com 09/26/2000 09:03 AM 
Steve -- Yes, I am interested in talking to him.    Should I contact Eric? Thanks for passing this along. Lisa Sent by:  Steven J Kean@ENRON 
any interest? 
Is this of interest to you? Eric 
Imad Tareen forwarded me his resume for a possible job opportunity in our group.  (Please see below.)  I have never met him before, and I have no idea how he got my phone number, but his resume looks quite good.  What do you think? Yvette 
Hi  Yvette Thanks for your help.  I  am very interested in exploring opportunities in your group.  I have a Masters in Public Policy from Harvard which deals a lot with communications and running  campaigns. Imad (See attached file: resumeimad[2].doc) - pic11478.pcx - resumeimad[2].doc 
yes Mark Palmer@ENRON 09/26/2000 08:51 AM 
Should we ask the guy that did the deal with Champion Paper to write a response? 
F.Y.I. Metropolitan Desk; Section B Debate on Need for New Power Plants Ignores Conservation By KIRK JOHNSON 09/26/2000 The New York Times Page 1, Column 2 c. 2000 New York Times Company New Yorkers heard a lot this summer about why their electricity bills were going up and why a new generation of power plants was needed, and the message centered on one word: demand. Millions of new air-conditioners, computers and other gadgets are humming, blinking and draining electricity from the power pool, utility executives and state energy officials said over and over again. The 40 percent jump in electricity rates that many in the region were assessed in August was only a hint of what could lie ahead, those officials suggested, if residents did not accept more power plants in their neighborhoods. What the public was not told was that the people framing the argument for building power plants have an abiding interest in selling more electricity. Nor was the public told that the means already existed to dampen demand and reduce the amount of new power needed, if the political will could be exerted. Before New York's energy markets were deregulated, beginning in 1998, the state required companies like Consolidated Edison to reduce demand in the system -- through energy efficiency measures, for example -- if that choice was cheaper than building a new plant. Under deregulation , that requirement has been lost. In an open market, every participant wants to sell more energy, and the government agencies in New York and other deregulated states that once compelled companies to think of alternatives have become silent or powerless. ''The reliability problems and price spikes in the last two years have led to a simplistic set of solutions: build more power plants,'' said Richard Cowart, director of the Regulatory Assistance Project, a nonprofit energy policy institute in Montpelier, Vt., that works with state regulators and utilities. On the new playing field, Mr. Cowart and other experts said, the incentives are all one-sided. Power generating companies have no motive to encourage people to use less energy or to use it more efficiently because the most money is to be made when demand is at its peak. And electricity delivery companies make more money by sending more electricity through their wires. ''The incentive to sell more electricity is overwhelming,'' Mr. Cowart said. Certainly, demand for electricity is rising in New York and across the country, and most experts agree that some added generating capacity is needed. And New York State's top electricity official, Maureen O. Helmer, chairwoman of the Public Service Commission, has emphasized in her recent speeches that conservation and efficiency measures must be part of the solution to rising demand. The problem, environmental groups and energy analysts say, is that in an arena in which government has taken a step back through deregulation , it is harder for regulators to make those opinions count. Given the tone of the debate in New York and the sharp jump in prices this summer, it would be easy for the public to think that the region's energy situation is worse than it actually is. Most long-term projections for the region say that demand will increase less in New York State and New York City than in the nation as a whole during the next 10 to 15 years. New York, it turns out, is not an energy hog. The most recent official long-term projection for New York, called the State Energy Plan, issued in late 1998, said the state could get by with only a very modest expansion in generating capacity for the next 10 years, or no expansion at all if the levels of electricity that utilities are required to hold in reserve could be modified. The rate of growth in demand is also slowing down, not accelerating. Within the territory served by Consolidated Edison, which includes all of New York City and its northern suburbs, peak demand, the highest single moment of energy use on the heaviest day of the year, rose by 1.7 percent a year from the mid-1990's to the end of the decade. In the new century, that growth rate is expected to be 1.2 percent a year. ''It will be more modest,'' one senior Con Ed official said. The main implication of those projections, economists and energy analysts say, is that most of the increased capacity proposed for New York City may not be needed at all, at least to meet new demand. In the Con Ed service area, meeting a 1.2 percent growth in demand through new supply alone would require an increased capacity of 500 to 750 megawatts over the next five years. Developers and power plant builders have proposed a total increase six to eight times greater than that in the next three years alone. ''No one plant can make the argument that it's really needed,'' said Ashok Gupta, an energy economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private conservation group. ''Like malls, power plants are now being built for market share.'' Predicting energy demand is notoriously difficult. In the early 1970's, for example, the accepted wisdom was that energy use would continue to grow at the rapid pace that it had in the 1960's. Academics and utility industry officials said the country might need 1,000 nuclear plants by the turn of the century. But the oil shocks of the mid-1970's and early 1980's forced the introduction of energy-efficiency measures that made those forecasts worthless. Energy use as a percentage of the nation's economy, called energy intensity, began declining and has done so ever since. Some energy officials have said the problem of rising prices and the overwhelming focus on supply is the result of a still-new electricity market that is not yet functioning as intended. Theorists who had envisioned competition as the door to a golden age of consumer choice had predicted that companies specializing in demand reduction -- they sell ways to cut energy use through technology or better management -- would compete with companies selling supply. But that has not happened yet. Part of Con Ed's prediction of more modest growth in demand in coming years is based on the expectation that demand-management companies will emerge within the next few years, company officials said. But state regulatory officials also made the political decision in the late 1990's to reduce spending for conservation and efficiency measures. The state, which once led the region in financing for alternatives to new supply -- an effort that included television commercials urging people to think about saving energy -- now spends about a third as much per capita as most states in the Northeast, including Connecticut and New Jersey, according to figures from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. Last month, a report filed with the State Public Service Commission recommended an increase in financing for the efficiency program. The report was produced by representatives of the electricity industry, working alongside consumer and environmental groups. But the state's utilities, including New York State Electric and Gas, Niagara Mohawk and Con Ed, refused to support the final report because they were unhappy with its conclusions. '' Deregulation undermined the role of utilities in promoting energy efficiency,'' said Edward A. Smeloff, the executive director of the Pace Law School Energy Project, a research and advocacy group that helped write the report. As electricity companies have become more conscious of the bottom line under deregulation , Mr. Smeloff said, demand-reduction programs have become a threat to profits. For utilities that buy most of their power from other companies, moving more electricity through the wires has become the primary way to increase profits, Mr. Smeloff said. ''That's the business,'' he added. Utility officials say that much of their demand problems come down to one hour each year, that moment of peak demand when consumers are using the most electricity. To a great degree, planning revolves around the need to have adequate supply for that crucial moment so as to avoid blackouts. But experts like Mr. Smeloff say the tools already exist to dampen those peaks, and reduce prices to consumers as well, if only a constituency existed to push for the changes. Many business and residential energy uses are routine and could be postponed for a few hours to dampen load on peak days, a plan that efficiency experts say would be particularly easy in New York City commercial buildings where energy use is centrally controlled and monitored. In England, one electricity provider created lower rates for consumers who ran appliances like washing machines and dishwashers in off-peak hours. The program became so popular that power use in the middle of the night went up significantly during the discount-pricing window. Environmentalists also worry that increasing power capacity beyond the real demand in New York could create a kind of self-fueling spiral. If too many new plants are built, they say, prices will probably fall, encouraging people to use more electricity, while at the same time reducing incentives to save energy or use more efficient products. In New York and elsewhere in the country, much of the growth in demand is being driven by the spread of air-conditioning, especially from people buying extra units to cool more parts of their homes. Last year, Con Ed began a kind of visual history project in which employees began regularly photographing 90 apartment buildings in New York City and counting the number of window air-conditioners. In one year, the total went up by 5 percent. Some energy experts say more air-conditioning could further increase the spurts in demand that could in turn lead to more power plants, which many scientists say are prime sources of the greenhouse gases blamed for global warming. ''We have hotter summers because of greenhouse gases and more greenhouse gases because of more air-conditioning,'' said Joseph Romm, the executive director of the Center for Energy and Climate Solutions, a nonprofit consulting institute based in Virginia. ''It would certainly be ironic if people decided that the solution was more power plants.'' Chart: ''LEDGER: Efficiency Plans'' While New York State makes plans to increase its electric power supply, it is doing less to promote the efficient use of existing power. Graph tracks spending for efficiency programs since 1992. SPENDING PER CAPITA CONNECTICUT: $33.33 MASSACHUSETTS: $32.69 NEW JERSEY: $29.18 RHODE ISLAND: $17.00 NEW YORK: $9.67 (Sources: Natural Resources Defense Council; New York State Energy Research and Development Authority)(pg. B6) Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Rosie - please print and have signed.  (Note there is a typo in the second line of the last paragraph -- does should be ""do"").  thanks 
John/Steve, Attached is a draft letter to Party Secretary Zhou Yong Kang of Sichuan Province declining an invitation for Ken Lay to speak at the 2000  Western Forum of China.  Secretary Zhou was recently in Houston and has extended an invitation to Ken Lay to speak at this conference. Please make any changes you feel are necessary, have Ken Lay's office print for his signature and send to Kari Duncan for faxing and forwarding.  If you have any questions, let us know. Thanks.  --Keith 
Thanks, Chris. Rick - see the witness list below, in case you want to try to get some points through to these witnesses. Chris Long 09/25/2000 04:14 PM 
Steve: I got the copy of the letter on independent auditor from Ken Lay to SEC Chairman Levitt.   I suggest we transmit the letter to the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Securities in preparation for their hearing noted below.  I will prepare a cover letter for transmission. Let me know if this acceptable. 
Zausner is kind of a mixed bag.  I think he's strong intellectually and has some influence, but I don't trust him to keep our strategy and contacts confidential. 
Today, I spoke with EPSA's outside counsel, Andy Zausner, about having his firm's Senior Counsel former Senator Wendell Ford (D-Ky, 1974-98) assist us with our FERC ""Linda Breathitt"" Strategy.  Former Senator Ford knew Linda's father well plus has dinner with Linda every several weeks or so.  There probably isn't anyone in Washington closer to Linda than Wendell as he has known her since she was a child.  Andy is expecting either Steve's or Rick's phone call to further discuss the Senator's involvement.  Andy did discuss in general that he wasn't certain whether his client, EPSA, would go along with the strategy but he thought, overall, it was a possibility.  Andy's direct number is 202-828-2259.  I know Andy and Wendell very well and would like to be helpful as you wish.  However, at this point, I thought an EPSA board 
Please have someone contact me at 425-503-4339 (cell telephone) or at the address on the web site underlined below  if Enron has an interest in the U.S. and internationally patented Angle Master. We now have marketing prototypes made, patents in place, outstanding consumer interest and are ready to proceed to the next step. The Angle Master can be very large or  small.. The output gear smoothly transitions from 0-90 degrees at high torque to to reach or drill any angle. The input gear can be driven by any device. No product on the market can perform like the Angle Master. I can see the use of the Angle Master for various drilling applications, including horizontal drilling Professional mechanics in all fields who have seen the smaller Angle Master all want one. We have endorsements from professional drivers, mechanics, and many others. A recently retired Captain of a nuclear aircraft carrier has stated in a letter ""....The use of the Angle Master.... will result in a significant time savings which in turn will increase combat readiness of aircraft and ships due to the more rapid turnaround of out of commission systems. Every mechanic will want the Angle Master in their toolbox after they have seen it in 
Isn't our primary problem with AEP's internal merchant function rather than with the marketing affiliate (I realize we have problems with the affiliate too)?  Can we protest continued market based rate authority for AEP until they have surrendered native load priority? Christi L Nicolay@ECT 09/25/2000 09:16 AM 
On 9/21, EPMI filed a protest (Below) against AEP/CSW's 3 year update request to continue market based rates for power marketing.  The filing includes examples of discriminatory behavior on OASIS (for ATCs, etc.) that potentially benefitted AEP's marketing side. EPMI has already protested Entergy's request for continuation of MBRs earlier this year, and plans to protest other large utility-based power marketer MBR filings this fall.  Let me know if you would like the list.  Thanks. 
** High Priority ** Christi - Attached is the final filing in word.  I also sent you a hard copy on Friday. - aep.doc 
More indications that the power angle may be fruitful 
Gore favors `Big Power' September 25, 2000 BY ROBERT NOVAK SUN-TIMES COLUMNIST Al Gore's $75 billion energy plan contains a $68 billion federal subsidy to help electric power companies make their plants environmentally friendly. Therein lies the dark side of the vice president's brand of populism. The power subsidy proposal was drafted by a Washington energy consultant who is one of Gore's closest advisers on the environment. One of the major beneficiaries of the plan would be a power company notorious for polluting the atmosphere. To close the circle, the company has used the Gore adviser as a paid consultant. In polishing up his energy program, Gore played a variation on his Los Angeles acceptance speech's populistic attack on certain categories of business that have broken no law. This time, the target was the energy industry (""Big Oil""), assailed for benefitting from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' manipulation of oil prices. But Gore is no across-the-board enemy of corporate America. He always takes care of friends. While positioning himself as the foe of Big Oil, he emerges as the friend of Big Power. In that category is American Electric Power, based in Columbus, Ohio, and one of the Midwest's biggest supplier of coal-generated power. AEP, sued by the Environmental Protection Agency last year for alleged violation of the Clear Air Act, is widely viewed as a pariah by the environmentalist movement. It is accused of running one of the dirtiest operations to generate power. AEP frequently has paid for advice from environmental advocate Kathleen A. McGinty, who has an unusual resume indeed. As senior legislative assistant for energy and environmental policy to then-Sen. Albert Gore Jr. of Tennessee, she quickly gained a reputation on Capitol Hill as a passionate advocate for global climate control. Gore picked her for Clinton administration posts, enabling her to affect national policy in a major way. In 1993, she was named to head the new White House Office on Environmental Policy. In 1996, she was promoted to head the Council on Environmental Quality and became a leader in trying to sell to America the massively unpopular 1997 Gore-promoted Kyoto Treaty (never considered by the Senate) to slash energy consumption. Last year, McGinty emerged as a consultant with the law and lobbying firm of Troutman Sanders. There, she has been engaged in an interesting balancing act. On the one hand, she advised AEP and the Atlanta-based Southern Co., another power giant. On the other, she moonlighted for Gore in drafting the June 27 energy plan. Since July, she has been working full time for the Democratic National Committee. Gore's plan promises to ""clean up the nation's aging power plants by using market-based enforcement and comprehensive standards to reduce pollution and increase efficiency."" It offers ""a menu of financial mechanisms"" to ""those power plants and industries that come forward with projects that promise to 
The senator's speech is focused on the oil sector almost exclusively, but it does an exceptional job of framing the importance of the issue. 
Ken wanted to make sure you saw this speech. 
Rosalee: I understand that Ken Lay and Senator Hagel will be together this evening at the Horatio Alger event I believe in Williamsburg. The attachment is the speech Chuck gave this week before ESI and Ken may find it helpful in some discussion tonight. Joe 
I thought you might be interested in seeing a copy of a speech on international energy policy that Sen. Hagel gave today at the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, D.C. - hagelesi.rtf 
Eliz -- I need your group to put together a search which captures the comments of PG&E and Edison officials in trade press, anlyst reports, and speeches which would be inconsistent with the idea that they can now recover their shortfall.  In other words, when they were trying to get AB 1890 passed, when they were fighting Proposition 9, when they floated their ""rate reduction bonds"" and when they talked to analysts and rating agencies I'm sure they assumed that they would live under the rate freeze and take the risk of stranded cost recovery whithin the statutory deadline. 
CC list suppressed... September 27, 2000 California Utilities' LossesOn Electricity Pose Risk By REBECCA SMITH Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL California's two biggest utilities are losing so much money buying electricity in the state's deregulated market that they have run up deficits equivalent to half their net worth in just four months. If the cost of wholesale power continues to exceed the price these utilities are allowed to bill their customers, as currently seems likely, they could become technically insolvent sometime next year. That would put pressure on regulators to orchestrate a multibillion-dollar public bailout, similar to the ""too big to fail'' response that in the past pushed governments to rescue banks. Such a scenario is quietly being discussed by bond-rating concerns that recently reduced their credit outlooks for Pacific Gas & Electric Co., a unit of San Francisco-based PG&E Corp., and Southern California Edison, a unit of Edison International of Rosemead, Calif. Bond- rating concerns say they aren't sure how much additional debt can be borne by the two affected utilities before they will have difficulty paying their bills. Probe of California Power Prices Begins, but New Plants Aren't Seen as Solution (Sept. 11) Los Angeles Utility Is Benefitting, Surprisingly, From Deregulation (Sept. 6) California Lawmakers Vote to Limit Electricity Costs (Sept. 1) ""If this is just a seasonal aberration, the utilities can get through it,"" says Lori Woodland, analyst for Fitch IBCA. ""If it goes on for six or nine months, it's a very serious situation."" Adds A.J. Sabatelle, senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service Inc.: ""At some 
Looks good.  How about a point about the need to connect new generation=20 quickly. Sarah Novosel 09/26/2000 09:55 PM =20 
Below is my first rough draft of a letter that could be sent from consumers= =20 to FERC Chairman Hoecker.  Due to technical difficulties, I could not attac= h=20 the letter in a separate document, so I copied the letter and have reprinte= d=20 it below. Having never been involved in this type of letter writing campaign, this wa= s=20 a bit of a stab in the dark for me, so I welcome everyone's comments.  I am= =20 also working on a letter that could be sent by senior management or CEOs of= =20 high tech firms, but I wanted to get your feedback on this format before I= =20 went forward on the high tech letter. Let me know if you have any questions or comments. Sarah September 26, 2000 The Honorable James Hoecker Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. Re: Electric Power Industry Reform Dear Chairman Hoecker: We are consumers or represent consumers of electric power.  We write to urg= e=20 you and your colleagues to take the initiative to address the intolerable= =20 shortages and extreme price volatility that have become all too common in t= he=20 electric power industry.  It is imperative that the Federal Energy Regulato= ry=20 Commission proceed expeditiously with the reforms needed to support a=20 competitive and efficient power supply industry to ensure a reliable supply= =20 of power at the lowest possible cost to consumers. There are many actions you and your colleagues should take to ensure that t= he=20 power supply in the U.S. remains sufficient and is available at reasonable= =20 prices.  For example, you and your colleagues should remove roadblocks in t= he=20 nation=01,s electricity gird.  Under the current system, FERC regulations a= llow=20 many companies that own transmission systems to restrict access to their=20 transmission lines by competing electricity suppliers.  The result of this= =20 policy is shortages, blackouts and skyrocketing prices.  Like the interstat= e=20 highway system, FERC should allow electricity to move from one state to=20 another just as freely as motorists do.  All electricity suppliers should= =20 have the same access to the transmission lines in order to transport power = to=20 where it is most needed. FERC should also discourage electricity suppliers=01, reliance on spot and= =20 short-term electricity markets for power supply.  Instead, FERC should urge= =20 suppliers to purchase a portion of their power needs under long-term=20 contracts.  Locking in electricity costs at fixed prices protects consumers= =20 from unexpected price swings that can be financially devastating. We strongly urge you and your colleagues to seize the initiative on these= =20 reforms.  Consumers deserve a power supply industry that is both more=20 reliable and economical.=20 Very truly yours, 
I don't know.  Can we get someone in IT to respond? Mary Clark 09/26/2000 05:42 PM 
Steve, I believe the answer is that we don't mandate a specific format for dates for all locations but rather use what is done locally -- just like this employee's recollection.  Do you agree? Mary 
Mary, Rick is on vacation and I am monitoring his email.  This question has come up before and we sent it to Philippe Bibi.  It is a computer question. Mary Clark 07/13/2000 11:27 AM 
Rick, can you prepare a response to this question for Ken, Jeff and Joe?  If you're not the right contact for this, do you know who is?  I need a response by Aug. 3.  Thanks. Mary 
Dear Ms. Clark, Here is my question: Would you allow our staff and customers to vote on Enron adopting the International Standards Organization Specification for formatting dates (i.e. ""YYYY-MM-DD"")? Please let me know if you would like me to send you a list of the many advantages in using the ISO standards. I asked Ken Lay this question a few years ago, but he thought we should use local customs; however, as we are becoming more international and more internet-based, the ISO standard is becoming more advantageous. Thank you, Dave Fabian 
FYI 
It's fine with me. Mary Clark 09/27/2000 11:23 AM 
Please send regrets 
SK - THIS IS THE SAME DAYS AS THE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE. SHOULD I GO AHEAD AND LET JEANNE PAYNE KNOW THAT YOU WILL NOT BE ATTENDING? mm Hello Mr. Kean Are you planning to attend the Board Meeting in Naples, Florida, November 15-17.  I just want to remind you that our block of hotel rooms will be released Friday, October 13. Jeanne Payne payne@bipac.org 
See if there is anythiing of use in here for your high tech group messages. 
The JP Morgan report below gives further credence to the Mills/Huber thesis of digital-age power growth.  The in-the-trenches story is different from some of the academic studies by the conservation mavens. - Rob - jp morgan.pdf 
Please post the JP MOrgan doc. on our site 
The JP Morgan report below gives further credence to the Mills/Huber thesis of digital-age power growth.  The in-the-trenches story is different from some of the academic studies by the conservation mavens. - Rob - jp morgan.pdf 
Mark This came up on the wire over the week-end - apparently it is based on a previously released story, so you may have already seen it. You are quoted mid-way through re Houston emissions. Tx Andrew Meet Enron, Bush's biggest contributor Pratap Chatterjee 09/01/2000 The Progressive 23 Copyright (c) 2000 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright Progressive Incorporated Sep 2000 Early last October, members of the ninth grade girls' track team and the boys' football team at suburban Houston's Deer Park High School's north campus returned from practice reporting severe breathing problems. That day, Deer Park registered 251 parts of ozone per billion, more than twice the federal standard, and Houston surpassed Los Angeles as the smoggiest city in the United States. One of the biggest contributors to Deer Park's pollution is a plant owned by Enron, Houston's wealthiest company. Enron and its executives are also the single largest contributors ($550,000 and counting) to the political ambitions of Texas Governor George W Bush, Republican candidate for President of the United States. Kenneth Lay, the chief executive of Enron, has personally given at least $250,000 in soft money to Bush's political campaigns. He is also one of the ""Pioneers""-a Bush supporter who has collected $100,000 in direct contributions of $1,000 or less. What is Enron? And what does it get in return for this largesse? Enron is the largest buyer and seller of natural gas in the country. Its 1999 revenues of $40 billion make it the eighteenth largest company in the United States. Enron invests in energy projects in countries around the world, including Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mozambique, and the Philippines. The company has recently expanded onto the Internet, buying and selling a dizzying array of products ranging from pulp and paper to petrochemicals and plastics, as well as esoteric products like clean air credits that utilities purchase to meet emission limits. Texas activists say that the tight connection between Bush and Lay bodes ill if Bush is elected. Andrew Wheat, from Texans for Public Justice, a campaign finance advocacy group in Austin, compares the symbiotic relationship between Enron and the governor to ""cogeneration""-a process used by utilities to harness waste heat vented by their generators to produce more power. ""In a more sinister form of cogeneration, corporations are converting economic into political power,"" he says. ""A Bush election fueled by Enron dollars could ignite in the public policy arena, and consumers would 
See if she wants to meet with me when I get back. 
Becky Bruce would like to meet on Sept. 28th from 3:00 pm to 4:00 pm in EB11C2 to review resumes of candidates to be interviewed.  You are able to access the resumes on the website (www.resumelink.com/grad  -   Jones School -  Id  Rice Grads  -  password  cpcowls).  Hard copies will be available at the meeting. Please RSVP to Alison Bailey by return e-mail so that I can make sure the room is large. 
Please post and circulate to the team. 
As discussed in last Friday's meeting on strategies related to higher energy prices, Harry asked me to develop the attached projection of delivered gas prices for this winter. The projection is based upon EIA's monthly analysis of delivered gas prices for residential, commercial and industrial customers for selected states (Connecticut, Virginia, Illinois and Texas) for the 1999-2000 winter heating season (Nov-Mar).  Assuming pipeline and LDC mark-ups remain constant, the delivered prices were adjusted for the NYMEX Henry Hub projection of wellhead prices for the 2000-2001 winter period.  A national projection is also included. Because the commodity portion of the gas bill for residential customers is a smaller percent of the total bill compared to commercial and industrial customers, the increase for residential customers will be less pronounced than for commercial or industrial customers.  In addition, LDC purchased gas cost mechanisms will moderate the effect of the price increase to some extent because monthly price increases are averaged out over an extended period (12 months in some cases).  Furthermore, some state public utility commissions (e.g. Connecticut) are conducting meetings with LDCs to discuss looking for ways to lessen the impact of the projected increases. That being said, Nipsco recently announced residential prices are expected to increase 50-60% this winter over last winter (in line with the projection for Illinois). If you are interested in a similar projection for other states, or have comments with respect to the above let me know. 
Please pst and circulate to the team.  We probably need to open a new section on the site to adress gas prices. 
I anticipate that GPG management will be asked at several upcoming industry meetings to comment on the reasons for and implications of rising natural gas prices.  Attached is a  proposed set of talking points for use in Q&A and briefing materials.    Please let me know if you find these message points to be consistent with our general Enron response to pricing inquiries. 
Submit a Pac request and keep Tom posted on when and where. Cynthia Sandherr 09/07/2000 05:05 PM 
Steve:  Congressman Chet Edwards is having a fundraiser in Houston, October 10th, 5:30-7:30 p.m. at Reliant's Bruce Gibson's home in River Oaks (2178 Troon).  Drayton McLane will attend.  They are looking for $1000 to host or $500 sponsor.  Congressman Edwards has been very helpful with our defense procurement issues, and we have contributed to him recently.  The Congressman's main request was to include Ken Lay's name on their invitation which Ken Lay graciously agreed to do so the Congressman is most pleased. Thus, the remaining request to attend and give additional money is up to you, although if we have room in our budget and Ken Lay or Tom White were available, I would recommend their attendance. 
I think I confirmed for this already, but could you check and put on my calendar and put this in the meeting file. 
Steve, I spoke with Ginger about your availability to deliver a keynote address at a Maguire Energy Institute conference on ""Electricity Deregulation Report Card"" on November 1.  Jeff is on this board, and they asked us if we could enlist Ken Lay to deliver this keynote.  Ken is scheduled to be at a board meeting in Washington this date, so is not available.   I suggested that you may be a suitable replacement, and they are very interested in the prospect of your participation. The link below is to the website for this conference, and the keynote would be delivered from 1:00p-1:30p, immediately following the luncheon.  Please let me know if you are available and willing to deliver this keynote; I would appreciate a response today if possible. Thanks, SRS 
Sherri, The link to the Maguire Energy Institute's ""Electricity Deregulation Report Card"" is http://maguireenergy.cox.smu.edu/programs/fallconf.html Thanks for your help. Allen Mesch Director Maguire Energy Institute Edwin L. Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, TX  75275-0333 Phone: 214-768-3692 Fax: 214-768-4099 E-mail: amesch@mail.cox.smu.edu Internet Site: http://maguireenergy.cox.smu.edu 
I think it's a good document and carves out some solid policy ground for Bush.  I think the electricity section needs some additions though.  There is not a lot that the current administration can do about siting new plants and power lines -- its largely a state and local decision.  Further, the problem has been less about government failing to provide adequate incentives to utilities than it has been about a failure of the current commission to opening the grid on a nondiscriminatory basis.  Once utilities are in the open access transmission business they will look for ways to invest in the grid and stop getting in the way of independent power producers who want to connect to the grid.  The answer is open access, so power can get from where it is to where it is needed.  This has been clear for a long time, yet the current administration (and its appointees on FERC) have yet to use their authority to make this happen.  The result: spiking prices and reliability problems. ""Hunt, Hunter L"" <HLHunt@georgewbush.com> 09/27/2000 11:25 AM 
- FactSheet-LatestDraft-09272000.doc 
calendar and meeting file 
- fax to members 3_1.TIF - fax to members 3_2.TIF - fax to members 3_3.TIF - fax to members 3_4.TIF 
Looks good Mark Palmer 09/27/2000 02:09 PM 
Here's the draft that Allegretti is sending. 
I've taken the editor's pencil to Dan's draft.  Here's the result: Kirk Johnson's September 26th article, Debate on Need for New Power Plants Ignores Conservation, leaves readers with the misperception that competitive electricity markets discourage conservation.  True customer choice proves otherwise. My company supplies electricity to a number of businesses in Maine.  One of these customers is a  paper mill that uses more electricity than thousands of homes.  When New England power prices temporarily spiked last May, we actually paid the mill to shut down ... which they were more than happy to do.  As a result, the customer made money, the grid worked better, and 
calendar 
Dear Rice Team: This event is scheduled for October 5th. Would any of you like to volunteer= =20 to participate?  Any chefs out there??? Thanks! lexi 
Dust off your best recipe! Round up the ingredients! And lasso the most student votes! Rice University's 9th Annual Recruiter Chili Cook-Off Thursday, Oct. 5th    Ray Courtyard, Student Center 4pm-6pm If you haven't done so already, make sure to fax over your form for our annual Recruiter Chili Cook-Off.  This is a great opportunity to meet with students in an informal setting.  The students taste your chili and then they vote for the best.  It's held 2 hours before the Rice vs. Fresno game.  There will be free hotdogs, sodas, and beer for everyone.  A zydeco band will provide the entertainment and each company will be given 4 complimentary football tickets for the 6pm game.  It's a lot of fun!  Don't miss out! Some of our past winners include:  Andersen Consulting, Enron, DSC Communications, and CSC Consulting -- =06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06= ?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?= =06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06= ?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?=06?= =06?=06?=06?=06? Heidi Lee Glantzberg Career Programs Manager CAREER SERVICES CENTER RICE UNIVERSITY 6100 S. Main Street, MS - 521 Houston, TX  77005 713-348-4055 
I would like to do this, but I have a speaking engagement the next day -- do the time zones work out so that I can do both or do I need to find a sub for the nov 1 speech? 
To commemorate the launch of our business activities and the opening of our office operations in Tokyo, Enron Japan requests the honor of your presence at a grand opening ceremony and reception.  Please mark your calendars, as we are scheduled to celebrate this new venture on Tuesday, October 31, 2000, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m., Hotel Okura, Akebono Room, in Tokyo. We are delighted to welcome the Prime Minister of Japan, Mr. Yoshiro Mori, who is currently scheduled to join Ken Lay in the traditional Japanese inauguration ceremony.  Dignitaries from Japanese government, key political figures and corporate leaders are invited to attend the event. You will receive an official invitation in due course, but in the meantime it would be very helpful if you could confirm by e-mail whether you expect to attend. Please respond to Mika.Watanabe@enron.com. We look forward to welcoming you in Tokyo as we celebrate the grand opening of Enron Japan. Yours sincerely, Joseph P. Hirl      Otemachi 1st Square Bldg. President and CEO     West 11th Floor Enron Japan Corp.     1-5-1 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 100-0004 
Jeff Skilling proposed a solution to Gov Davis to solve the supply and pricing problems in the California market.  In summary, the proposal would have a neutral party conduct an auction wherein the utilities would seek bids for 5-10 year packages of power from suppliers.  The gov asked if anyone had successfully conducted such an auction in the industry already. I need your help to identify and describe any such examples (European or North American) by mid day Monday. Jeff and I will have a follow up call with the governor on Monday. 
Jeff Skilling proposed a solution to Gov Davis to solve the supply and pricing problems in the California market.  In summary, the proposal would have a neutral party conduct an auction wherein the utilities would seek bids for 5-10 year packages of power from suppliers.  The gov asked if anyone had successfully conducted such an auction in the industry already. I need your help to identify and describe any such examples (European or North American) by mid day Monday. Jeff and I will have a follow up call with the governor on Monday. Thanks 
Jeff Skilling proposed a solution to Gov Davis to solve the supply and pricing problems in the California market.  In summary, the proposal would have a neutral party conduct an auction wherein the utilities would seek bids for 5-10 year packages of power from suppliers.  The gov asked if anyone had successfully conducted such an auction in the industry already. I need your help to identify and describe any such examples (European or North American) by mid day Monday. Jeff and I will have a follow up call with the governor on Monday. Thanks 
For the call with Davis this am..... 
The attached spreadsheet contains indicative prices for northern California. Call me if you have any questions. Tim Belden 503-464-3820 (w) 503-701-5181 (c) Sent by:  Steven J Kean@ENRON 
Jeff Skilling proposed a solution to Gov Davis to solve the supply and pricing problems in the California market.  In summary, the proposal would have a neutral party conduct an auction wherein the utilities would seek bids for 5-10 year packages of power from suppliers.  The gov asked if anyone had successfully conducted such an auction in the industry already. I need your help to identify and describe any such examples (European or North American) by mid day Monday. Jeff and I will have a follow up call with the governor on Monday. Thanks 
Jeff Skilling proposed a solution to Gov Davis to solve the supply and pricing problems in the California market.  In summary, the proposal would have a neutral party conduct an auction wherein the utilities would seek bids for 5-10 year packages of power from suppliers.  The gov asked if anyone had successfully conducted such an auction in the industry already. I need your help to identify and describe any such examples (European or North American) by mid day Monday. Jeff and I will have a follow up call with the governor on Monday. Thanks 
let's bring him in Christi L Nicolay@ECT 10/02/2000 12:29 PM 
Don Morton, general counsel of Wabash Valley Power Association, a co-op in AEP's area, called me about Enron's protest of AEP's market based rates filing.  Wabash has filed an appeal in the DC Circuit of AEP/CSW merger (its brief is due 11/20).  He thinks FERC is out of control and not carrying on its duties.  Wabash is also preparing a protest of the Alliance compliance filing (due this Friday 10/6) on the following grounds: Filing is really a continuation of pancaking Does not want FERC to approve on a ""conditional"" basis (expecting Alliance to be a true RTO)--Wabash thinks that Alliance simply creates a larger profit center for AEP's transmission system Mr. Morton also had some specific OASIS problem examples that happened to Wabash that involved preferential treatment for AEP.  I told him to call or email Scott Miller for the investigation. Mr. Morton and Wabash CEO, Ed Martin, would like to come to Houston to visit with Enron about our concerns and about the possibility of making some joint filings.  His number is 317-481-2815.  Please let me know if I should set something up or if someone else would like to talk with him directly. 
Per our discussion 
Last Thursday, I made the first attached presentation to the FERC Staff at the power marketer's meeting on the FERC's investigation of the wholesale market in the West (and in particular California).  Ellen Wolf (of Tabors Caramanis) and I created this presentation building on previous presentations by Tim Belden and Dave Parquet.  In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: There isn't much FERC can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market.  We discouraged FERC from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the California and the rest of the West as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the Commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The IOUs have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity.  They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at ISO real time prices.  My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The Commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in Powerpoint.  When you do, you will find there are many ""hidden"" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to Staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (Scott Miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than Staff's previous meetings with the IOUs and the generators.  Based on the numerous phone calls I've been getting, the Staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that Tim sent to Scott Miller on Friday.  Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message.  On Friday, Tim talked to Scott and answered some additional questions.  Tim said that Enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory PX buying requirement and would like the IOUs to be able to buy from Enron Online.  He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . 
Letters Letters 10/09/2000 Time Magazine Time Inc. 12+ (Copyright 2000) Byzantine Practices? I was flying over Bolivia's Chiquitano Forest as I read your article on the ""old-time gas company"" Enron [BUSINESS, Aug. 28]. Over the past year, this forest, the largest remnant of intact primary dry tropical forest in the world, has been bisected by a 30-ft.-wide gash for construction of a gas pipeline by Enron and Shell. Enron in its quest for profit has ignored the scientific advice of conservation organizations to maintain the ecological integrity of this endangered forest ecosystem. Enron and Shell decided to open the 10 million- acre forest to fragmentation and deforestation by their pipeline. Enron may be keeping pace with advancing technologies to plow ahead in global markets, but its environmental practices are Byzantine and pose a global threat to biodiversity. PATRICIA CAFFREY World Wildlife Fund-Bolivia Santa Cruz, Bolivia Arena foes launch bid to defeat new plan By ERIC BERGER Copyright 2000 Houston Chronicle Wednesday, October 4, 2000 A handful of activists, including a Harris County Green Party official and several low-tax proponents, launched an effort Tuesday to defeat a second plan to build a downtown arena. Unlike the 1999 opposition campaign, this year's anti-arena movement is not seeking a better financing deal for taxpayers. These activists want no arena at all. Although this year's opponents lack the nearly $700,000 their higher-profile predecessors spent last year, that has done little to diminish their rhetoric. ""Should we spend our city's limited resources on building up rich guys, or do we spend it building up our communities?"" asked activist DeWayne Lark, standing in front of City Hall. ""There will be no more corporate welfare in 
See first item below 
Letters Letters 10/09/2000 Time Magazine Time Inc. 12+ (Copyright 2000) Byzantine Practices? I was flying over Bolivia's Chiquitano Forest as I read your article on the ""old-time gas company"" Enron [BUSINESS, Aug. 28]. Over the past year, this forest, the largest remnant of intact primary dry tropical forest in the world, has been bisected by a 30-ft.-wide gash for construction of a gas pipeline by Enron and Shell. Enron in its quest for profit has ignored the scientific advice of conservation organizations to maintain the ecological integrity of this endangered forest ecosystem. Enron and Shell decided to open the 10 million- acre forest to fragmentation and deforestation by their pipeline. Enron may be keeping pace with advancing technologies to plow ahead in global markets, but its environmental practices are Byzantine and pose a global threat to biodiversity. PATRICIA CAFFREY World Wildlife Fund-Bolivia Santa Cruz, Bolivia Arena foes launch bid to defeat new plan By ERIC BERGER Copyright 2000 Houston Chronicle Wednesday, October 4, 2000 A handful of activists, including a Harris County Green Party official and several low-tax proponents, launched an effort Tuesday to defeat a second plan to build a downtown arena. Unlike the 1999 opposition campaign, this year's anti-arena movement is not seeking a better financing deal for taxpayers. These activists want no arena at all. Although this year's opponents lack the nearly $700,000 their higher-profile predecessors spent last year, that has done little to diminish their rhetoric. ""Should we spend our city's limited resources on building up rich guys, or do we spend it building up our communities?"" asked activist DeWayne Lark, standing in front of City Hall. ""There will be no more corporate welfare in 
Just a ""heads up"" ... Ken may get a call from Gov Gilmore regarding the Republican Governors' Association.  Below are Sue Landwehr's recommendations (with which I concur).  Let me know if he calls and let us know if you need any additional information. 
I agree w/ your recommendations. Susan M Landwehr@EES 10/03/2000 09:50 PM 
Rick--you may have seen a recent  letter from Gov Jim Gilmore and the RGA requesting that we make an additional contribution in the next few weeks to the RGA for their polling/advertising/grassroots efforts on the upcoming November elections.  They list a fundraising goal of $1,660,000 (just a bit aggressive!)  If we are not able to make an additional contribution,  he asks that we renew our 2001 annual membership of $40,000 now instead of in January of 2001.  If we do anything, my recommendation would be to cut a check now for our annual membership (the downside of doing that, of course, is that they will hit us a number of times in 2001 for incremental contributions to specific events/causes). I bring this to your attention for two reasons-one is that if I know Governor Gilmore, he will probably make a call directly to Ken Lay and you and Steve may want to have an answer available if Mr. Lay gets the call.  Secondly, what are your thoughts on my response to RGA?  My preference would be to not commit to any additional dollars, with a fall back that if Gilmore does call Lay and he wants to respond positively, we then commit to renewing our membership early. I think you are pretty busy over the next few days--please respond as your schedule allows.  THanks. 
FYI 
Rosie, On September 25, 2000 the Tibetan Government-in-exile wrote Dr. Lay at the Beijing office address requesting that Enron cancel its participation in the Sebei-Lanzhou pipeline.   We faxed a copy of this communication to you a few minutes ago.  We have drafted the attached proposed response.  Rebecca McDonald concurs with the approach in this letter, which has been reviewed by the addressees of this message.  Your assistance in appropriately formatting and printing the letter for signature would be appreciated.  Please let me know if you have any questions or need assistance. Thanks, John 
Mark has some editorial changes to the letter if there is still time 
Two suggestions:  I think the word ""forgoing"" should be ""foregoing"", and I do not see the need for us to say what the Chinese Government decided, as opposed to saying: ""Subsequently, we understand the Chinese Government decided . . . ""   mcs Sent by:  Steven J Kean@ENRON 
FYI 
Rosie, On September 25, 2000 the Tibetan Government-in-exile wrote Dr. Lay at the Beijing office address requesting that Enron cancel its participation in the Sebei-Lanzhou pipeline.   We faxed a copy of this communication to you a few minutes ago.  We have drafted the attached proposed response. Rebecca McDonald concurs with the approach in this letter, which has been reviewed by the addressees of this message.  Your assistance in appropriately formatting and printing the letter for signature would be appreciated.  Please let me know if you have any questions or need assistance. Thanks, John (See attached file: Tibet Letter from Ken Lay  092800.doc) 
What do you think? If you think this would be useful, go ahead and order it. 
What have they done for us? Terence H Thorn@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 10/03/2000 08:30 AM 
Steve I need your help. Twice in the last three months I have run into the Chairman of AGA who has taken my head off for Enron not renewing its AGA dues. I understand that the dues had been paid by  Stan Horton who had decided that the pipeline group with INGAA representing it had no need for and received no benefit from the membership. I guess a few years back, when AGA ""kicked"" the pipelines out, they renegotiated the dues into some type of sub membership for around 85K. AGA approached the gas marketing team and talked to Mike Roberts about renewing the membership and maintaining relations with his customers and later to Jeff Shankman who passed them off to some other person and never got back to them as promised.  This is a heads up to tell you that Bob Catell of Brooklyn Union fame- one of Enron's oldest customers and friends will be calling Lay. It seems to me that pro rating the dues among ENA and EGM and maybe GPG might be a solution. Anyhow, I promised to pass on the complaint. Thanks. 
up other appointments, needs one of you (SK, RS, or KM) to speak and join them for dinner. 
Maybe Kathleen for Gas and Steve or Rick for Electricity. 
I won't be on the call, but will fax my comments to you this am Twanda Sweet@ECT 10/06/2000 09:51 AM 
Please be advised that there will be a conference call today at 11:30a.m. central standard time to discuss the draft response to CPUC.  The dial in number is 800-998-2462 (passcode 4672956).  If you have any questions, please call me at 713-853-5587. Thanks. Richard Twanda Sweet Enron North America Corp. EB3821 (713) 853-9402 
I've got a few too many speeches coming up.  You are probably in the best position to address this crowd (time for the student to teach the teacher), but I'd understand if you think it would be awkward (the we should just decline). Jeff Dasovich 10/05/2000 01:23 PM 
Steve:  Let me know if you'd like to discuss.  I like Tim's idea re: maybe you should take the slot.   But in my view definitely not Skilling.  I think you saw my thoughts about this conference in a previous email exchange with Schroeder re: Littlechild. Also, they're breaking my arms and legs about sponsoring ($3-5K range).  I had a thought that maybe EBS could stream the conference as an in-kind contribution---the PR that EBS gets out of streaming might outweigh the cost of providing gratis.  I had only raised it as a thought, though, and am surprised to see it turn up in print. Tim and I had both had Lee as a professor and I've been talking him about this conference alot and have no problem delivering whatever the news is.  In fact, I had already told them that they shouldn't count on us for this one but that we're always interested in working together. Best, Jeff Tim Belden@ECT 10/05/2000 01:00 PM 
Jeff, I sent this e-mail to Kean last night.  I am fine with your recommendation for Skilling to pass on this event.  Do you want to deliver the news to Lee.  Do we want to offer you, Steve Kean, or me as an alternative?  Personally, I would like to attend but don't have much interest in speaking (assuming that they would allow low lifes like you or me to speak).  Your call on all of this.  Call bob Badeer with questions about the BEEP as I am heading out of town in a couple of hours. Tim:  I've worked hard with these guys to try to make this conference the best that it could be, but it ain't quite there.  So I'd rather keep our powder dry and use Skilling at another time.  Not top-shelf enough in my view.  If you want to discuss further let me know. Also, one question: Is the BEEP stack the constrained supply curve post-adjustment bids?  I have that right? 
Do you guys follow these reports?  Do we need to correct them? 
t $21=20 Per Share Was Enron actually banned from the California residential market, as per=20 below?  mcs 
er=20 Share http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************ SCIENTECH's timely and newest InfoGrid, The Telecommunications InfoGrid, will help you keep up with the latest moves of energy companies into the fast-growing telecom market.  Learn more about SCIENTECH'S InfoGrids at: http://www.consultrci.com/web/infostore.nsf/Products/InfoGrid ************************************************************************ =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH IssueAlert, October 6, 2000 Calling All Investors: The New Power Company's IPO Priced at $21 Per Share By: Will McNamara, Director, Electric Industry Analysis =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D TNPC, Inc., parent of The New Power Company, announced yesterday that its initial public offering (IPO) of 24 million common shares was priced at $21 per share. The stock closed yesterday at $27 per share. The Company expects to receive net proceeds from the offering of its shares at=20 approximately $473 million, exclusive of the underwriters' option to purchase an addition= al 3,600,000 common shares to cover over allotments. TNPC, Inc.=01*a partnersh= ip between Enron, America Online (AOL) and IBM=01*was formed in late 1999 to provide electricity and natural gas directly to households and small=20 businesses in the deregulated energy marketplace. TNPC's shares will be listed on the NYSE under the symbol NPW. Closing of the offering is expected to occur Oct. 11. ANALYSIS: I am sure that many eyebrows were raised when TNPC issued the IPO of its stock at $21, a figure that seemed surprisingly high for a start= -up company that has been in operation only since early summer. It is rather mind-boggling that a company with no significant track record could open its stock at such a price, but it is not unheard of. In fact, TNPC is=20 following a trend of new Internet companies initiating IPOs that are supported by 
When we talked about me speaking at the conference in Nov. Enron's management conference had not yet been scheduled.  Now it has and, of course, it conflicts... it also conflicts out just about every other senior person at Enron.  I will take care of finding a substitute, but wanted your thoughts on a couple of candidates:  how about Seabron Adamson, Richard Tabors or Scott Magrane(sp?).  The latter is at Goldman Sachs and, last time I talked to him, was working on Transcos. Let me know what you think and let me know who you were working with at FEBA so I can take care of the problem. 
I mentioned the need to call Gramm in the exec committee meeting today and Ken is willing to do it.  The talking points ISDA sent looked fairly generic.  Given Ken's relationship, and the fact that he has talked to Gramm previously on the subject, what should we ask Ken to cover?  I'd like to give him a background document and talking points like we did last time.  I will send it by fax to you Chris and would appreciate it if you could update it as 
Do you still expect Guinn to call Ken?  If so, do we have updated talking 
I want to keep my subscription current. 
Dear Steve: This is to inform you that your subscription to Harvard Business Review is up for renewal.  In the past, such renewals were routed to Info Central to be paid.  Our department has changed its focus to research. If you would like to renew as a courtesy, we would be happy to take care of this for you.  We will contact the publisher and let them know that for the next renewal to send the invoice directly to you, and from then on, you would take care of payment. Please let me know if you would like to renew this publication.  If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me. Sincerely, Susan Kennedy eSource 713/835-9135 
calendar 
A conference call has been set up from 9:30 - 10:30 am Wednesday, October 11 to discuss the roll-out plan for project E-Trans.  The call in number is 888-476-3762, Host Code (for Jeff only) is 319346, Participant Code (for everyone else) is 697588. Conference room EB-47C1 in Houston has been reserved for this call. If you have any questions regarding this call, please give me a call at Ext. 33226. Thanks, 
Updates Mark Frevert - new cellular number 
Fenosa and Enron to Invest $550 Million in Dominican Republic 10/10/0 12:43 (New York) Fenosa and Enron to Invest $550 Million in Dominican Republic Madrid, Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Union Electrica Fenosa SA, Spain's third-biggest power company, and Enron Corp., the world's largest energy trader, will invest together in the Dominican Republic, kicking off the alliance by building a $550 million power plant and re-gasification facility. The partners will build a natural-gas-fired power station whose 500-megawatt capacity will represent 30 percent of the country's current electricity demand, said Fenosa in a note, confirmed with the company. The generator will run on liquefied natural gas when it starts operating in 2002, switching to fuel from the re- gasification plant when it starts operating in 2003. Fenosa has had an alliance with International Power Plc, formerly National Power Plc, since 1998. That alliance focuses on Europe, the U.S. and Australia, a Fenosa spokeswoman said today. Enron was the first U.S. utility to receive licenses to buy, sell and import electricity in Spain, after the government started opening energy markets to competition in 1998. It's also licensed to market natural gas. The Texas-based utility is building a gas-fired power plant in southern Spain, has a wind turbine factory near Toledo, and plans another windmill factory in Catalonia. --Brooke Nelson in the Madrid bureau (34 91) 700-9600 or b.nelson@bloomberg.net   /ph Story illustration: UNF SM <Equity> COMP D to chart Fenosa's performance against the IBEX index. TOP NRG DJ Union Fenosa/Enron -2: Construction To Begin 2001 >E.FEN 10/10/0 12:40 (New York) MADRID (Dow Jones)--Spanish electricity company Union Electrica Fenosa SA (E.FEN) said late Tuesday it has reached an agreement with U.S. energy company Enron (ENE) to invest in energy infrastructure projects in the Dominican Republic. In a release, Fenosa said the deal involves the construction of a combined-cycle power plant with a 500MW potency, which will use natural gas from a regasification plant on the island nation. The 500MW potency is equivalent to 30% of the Caribbean island's electricity demand. The deal also includes a complimentary project, Fenosa said. This is the construction of a regasification plant on the republic's coastline, with a capacity for treating gas equivalent to the consumption of various groups of combined-cycle plants with a potency of 1300MW. The investment for these two projects is seen at around $550 million, of which $100 million could come from Dominican companies, Fenosa said. Fenosa and Enron estimate that construction of the two projects will begin in early 2001, with the power plant coming online in 2002. It will operate with combustible liquid until 2003, at which time the regasification plant comes online. (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  10-10-00 12:40 PM- - 12 40 PM EDT 10-10-00 
Contact Mike Terraso (who heads the environmental function) and Mike Hicks (who oversees corporate security). Jason Sokolov@ECT 10/11/2000 08:46 AM 
Steven, I have not spoken to you in a while! How are things going? I have a question for you. I am enrolled in a Corporate Crisis MGMT class at Rice, and my assignment for the up-coming Tuesday is to evaluate the crisis system (if there is one) at Enron. Do you happen to know anything about Crisis Management in our company? Let me know at your earliest convenience.. Jason Sokolov 
sounds good, but i couldn't open the file.  could you send hard copy Kelly Kimberly@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/10/2000 11:41 PM 
Wow!  We are making a little progress, it looks like! (Steve, when Mike and I met with Francis for the first time he told us we had to agree that we'd never use WWF's name related to this initiative if they participated with EES) 
Utilities 
pass=20 Utilities http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************=20 SCIENTECH's E-commerce InfoGrid uncovers the efforts of energy-related=20 companies in the ever-growing field of electronic commerce. A sample can=20 be viewed at: http://www.consultrci.com/web/infostore.nsf/Products/InfoGrid ************************************************************************ =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH IssueAlert, October 11, 2000 Online Niche Players Capitalize on Natural-Gas Shortage, Bypass Utilities By: Will McNamara, Director, Electric Industry Analysis =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SmartEnergy, a Con Edison competitor, is offering New York and Westchester= =20 consumers price protection with the ability to lock-in today's natural-gas= =20 rates for a period of one year. In a separate announcement, myHomeKey.com= =20 announced that it will offer energy savings packages designed to reduce=20 energy consumption and lower rates for customers in the face of rising=20 energy costs. ANALYSIS: As reports continue to accumulate that a natural-gas shortage=20 will send prices skyrocketing this winter (see my IssueAlert from Oct.=20 9 on the subject), the most common response from electric utilities has=20 been to warn their customers that they will see higher rates over the next= =20 few months. I can point to several examples. Minneapolis-based Xcel Energy= =20 announced a few weeks back that its natural-gas customers could face heatin= g=20 bills that are 35 to 50 percent higher than their bills last winter. Domini= on=20 East Ohio has warned its residential customers that they can expect to=20 pay about $70 more per month for natural gas from November through January.= =20 And the warnings are coming not only in the Midwest and Northeast=01*where= =20 low winter temperatures drive up energy bills every year=01*but in the West= =20 as well. In California, PG&E warns that its customers can expect to see=20 their winter bills increase by about $25, to an average bill of $75 (compar= ed=20 to $50 last winter). These are just a few examples of utility companies=20 across the United States playing damage control, trying to minimize the=20 customer outrage when customers suddenly see their bills double or triple. Along with their warnings, these utilities give reasons=01*perhaps seen as= =20 excuses by the public=01*for the rising cost of energy. There is a shortage= =20 of natural gas across the country, brought about by a drop-off in productio= n.=20 It was an unusually hot summer, which depleted supplies for energy. Demand= =20 in general has grown to surprising levels. Meanwhile, start-up online companies that many of us have not even heard=20 of are using the rise in natural-gas prices as a golden marketing=20 opportunity,=20 and attempting to take business away from traditional utility companies.=20 SmartEnergy is a perfect example. In existence just since April 1999, =20 SmartEnergy offers electricity and natural gas to residential and small=20 business customers. According to EnergyGuide.com, for an average home in=20 New York City, SmartEnergy's natural-gas rates typically have run about=20 $189 per month, compared Con Edison's $140. Under its new promotion,=20 SmartEnergy's=20 plan for natural gas guarantees that New York City and Westchester gas=20 customers who sign on with their service now will be locked into current=20 natural-gas rates for the next 12 months. This promotion comes at an ideal= =20 time for those who opt to switch, as natural-gas prices should begin their= =20 projected sharp increase over the next few weeks. Based on recent forecasts= ,=20 SmartEnergy is claiming that Con Edison customers who make the switch can= =20 expect to save up to 40 percent on their energy through the winter months.= =20 The start-up company also is offering 500 United Airlines Mileage Plus=20 Reward Miles credit and $25 sign-up bonus to entice customers away from=20 Con Edison.=20 Based on the available information about SmartEnergy, it is unclear how=20 the online provider will be able to guarantee the 40-percent reduction=20 in natural-gas rates. I would presume that SmartEnergy has entered into=20 some hedging strategies to minimize its risk in the event that natural-gas= =20 prices remain high into the next year. Any prudent provider would have=20 a hedging strategy to protect itself, and locking itself into 12-month=20 contracts without its own contracts for obtaining natural gas at spot marke= t=20 prices would certainly raise questions about the future of SmartEnergy.=20 In addition, SmartEnergy will have difficulty in recruiting customers away= =20 from Con Edison and other utility providers. Many customers still have=20 reservations about signing on with an online company that they do not know.= =20 There will be some customers who jump at the chance to lock in current=20 rates for 12 months, but many others will stick with the company that they= =20 know even if their rates increase. I did a quick search around Con Edison's Website to see if it might be=20 offering an alternative offer to retain its customers, but could find nothi= ng=20 that the utility is doing to specifically address the projected increase=20 in natural-gas prices this winter. Con Edison does offer a level billing=20 program in which customers receive a consistent bill amount each month,=20 alleviating fluctuation in their bills. Yet, as a utility company, Con=20 Edison has a standard offer of service that regulators closely monitor.=20 It is possible that Con Edison could request changes to the standard offer= =20 service, which would likely need to be approved by the New York Public=20 Service Commission. The PSC could agree, or determine that the competitive= =20 offers by providers such as Smart Energy are a positive result of=20 deregulation.=20 In addition, Con Edison could be hampered by fuel contracts that may not=20 allow it much flexibility with regard to lowering its rates. Overall, Con= =20 Edison probably does not have a lot of flexibility regarding the rates=20 it can charge customers, thereby making this offer from SmartEnergy difficu= lt=20 to beat. The other online start-up taking advantage of natural-gas prices is=20 myHomeKey.com,=20 which made a recent promise to reduce home heating, oil, natural-gas, and= =20 electricity rates. The marketing route that this online start-up is taking= =20 is energy efficiency=01*teaching households how to more effectively use the= ir=20 energy and, hopefully, save money as a result. Energy is not the only servi= ce=20 of the myHomeKey.com; it is also involved in home maintenance and repair,= =20 appliances, home monitoring and moving services. Yet, I learned that=20 myHomeKey.com=20 just recently launched co-branded sites with KeySpan Corp. and TXU Energy= =20 Services to ""provide millions of local customers"" with the ability to check= =20 energy efficiency in their homes. What's important to note about these two developments is the advantage=20 that online energy providers have over traditional utilities. As utilities= =20 try to disengage themselves from regulatory-bound rate structures, online= =20 companies have the freedom and flexibility to offer attractive products=20 and billing options to customers in deregulated states. There are the onlin= e=20 providers that we know about, such as Utility.com and Essential.com.=20 Utility.com=20 has not yet started to sell natural gas, although it has established a=20 partnership with Sempra Energy in which Sempra Energy Trading will sell=20 natural gas in deregulated markets via the Utility.com Web site. Utility.co= m=20 plans to start selling natural gas by the end of this year, but it has=20 not developed any marketing campaign in this regard. Essential.com continue= s=20 to open up its service across the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions. Yet,= =20 on a weekly basis, new start-up online energy providers surface, eager=20 to grab their own share of the retail market.=20 I also wonder where The New Power Company is in all of this rush to=20 capitalize=20 on the marketing opportunities surrounding the rise in natural-gas prices.= =20 It would seem like a natural for TNPC to make a big splash with its own=20 marketing efforts, as it already promises lower prices for both natural=20 gas and electricity. In any event, as the natural-gas shortage may become= =20 a public relations nightmare for utility companies across the country,=20 it conversely could work to the advantage of the more agile online provider= s =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D Read about SCIENTECH's new PowerHitter interview with Jeff Sterba, Chairman= =20 and CEO of the Public Service Company of New Mexico at:=20 http://www.consultrci.com=20 =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let= =20 us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH=20 information products including e-commerce and telecom in the electric utili= ty=20 industry. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily= =20 IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and=20 email address or register directly at: http://www.consultrci.com/web/infostore.nsf/Products/IssueAlert Sincerely, Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis wmcnamara@scientech.com =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D Feedback regarding SCIENTECH's IssueAlert should be sent to=20 wmcnamara@scientech.com =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are compiled based on independent analysis by=20 SCIENTECH=20 consultants.  The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not=20 intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed or to=20 be the basis for investment decisions of any kind.  SCIENTECH's sole purpos= e=20 in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective=20 regarding=20 the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing= =20 reputation as an expert on energy and telecommunications issues. Copyright 2000.  SCIENTECH, Inc. If you do not wish to receive any further IssueAlerts from SCIENTECH, pleas= e=20 
I'd love to but I'll be in London Marge Nadasky@ECT 10/11/2000 12:01 PM 
You recently received an e-mail from Terrie James regarding a video we are working on for the upcoming Management Conference.  We have been able to lock in a date and time to do this taping on Thursday, October 19th, from 4-6 p.m.  We are still working on the location for this taping, but plan on this taking place in close proximity to the Enron Building. Can you please let me know if you will be available to participate in this group session?  If not, we will be following up with some individual taping the week of the 23rd. If you have questions, feel free to contact Terrie James on Ext. 37727, or myself on Ext. 36631. Marge Nadasky 
sounds good.  I think we should not talk about the conversations with the governor . . . I'd rather not prompt them to go to the gov (presumably to object to the gov talking to us without talking to them at the same time). Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/11/2000 02:54 PM 
FYI.  Recently, Chris Calger has asked me to set up a meeting with Sempra. ENA's seeking deals with the two big CA gas IOUs (PG&E and SoCalGas) that would give ENA access to their assets.  In short, ENA wants to offer a complete outsource deal for the IOUs' core gas load (i.e., rez and small commercial customers).  ENA would take responsibility for providing service for delivery at the city gate and in return would manage all of core's assets (upstream of the city gate).  We're meeting with Sempra's ""Chief Regulatory Office"" (Bill Reed) and Sempra's CFO next Thursday to discuss. Given the fact that Sempra's primarily focused on electricity, the plan is to lead off the meeting with a couple of electricity solutions as a bridge to the gas offer.  For electricity, the plan has two pieces:  1) a commodity 
India 
I will be out of the country on Wednesday Johan Zaayman@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 10/10/2000 02:50 PM 
Steve, Jim, Mike: You may be aware that Enron officials have in the past met with international opinion leaders visiting the US as part of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship (EEF) program. The EEF is an international leadership exchange program that promotes international understanding and productivity through the exchange of information, ideas, and perspectives among emerging leaders throughout the world. Ken Lay is a member of the EEF Board of Trustees. Enron will be hosting three EEF visitors from India on Wednesday, October 18, 2000: Mr. Sanjeev Ahluwalia, Secretary of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission; Mr. Sreenivasan Jain, Newscaster, New Delhi TV; and Mr. Jawed Usmani, Joint Secretary, Office of the Prime Minister. I am preparing a day program at Enron for the three persons, two of whom - Sanjeev Ahluwalia and Jawed Usmani - are interested in learning more about the US regulatory environment. Mr. Ahluwalia also wants to learn more about US environmental policy in both local and global contexts (please refer to attached bios for more details). I would be grateful if either Steve or Jim could meet with the above persons for 30-45 minutes to discuss regulatory issues. Similarly, if Mike could be available to meet with Mr. Ahluwalia re environmental issues. Please let me know if you are available either between 10:00 - 12:00 noon or 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 18, 2000. If you are unavailable, it would be appreciated if one of your other colleagues could assist in this regard. Many thanks, Johan - AHLUWALIA bio.doc - CV1.doc 
Nick Lampson called and asked for a contribution.  I committed to one without knowing about his vote on PNTR.  I will keep my word by making an individual contribution but will also communicate to him that in my capacity as Enron PAC chair i cannot authorize the PAC to make a contribution as a result of that vote. 
What do you think he'll add? Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/13/2000 11:01 AM 
I think it would be a good idea to have Ron Carroll in Watkiss' shop to do a parallel analysis to what we're going to have Mike Day do.  Ron's very good and has done much work on these sortrs of issues.  You comfortable with that? 
fyi 
Attached is a draft news release announcing Enron's bandwidth management agreement with i2.  EBS is planning to issue this release on Monday, Oct. 16 prior to Enron's earnings release on Tuesday, Oct. 17.  Please review and let me know if you have any comments by end of day today, Friday, Oct. 13. Thank you. Meredith Philipp 
looks good Meredith Philipp 10/13/2000 09:30 AM 
Attached is a draft news release announcing Enron's bandwidth management agreement with i2.  EBS is planning to issue this release on Monday, Oct. 16 prior to Enron's earnings release on Tuesday, Oct. 17.  Please review and let me know if you have any comments by end of day today, Friday, Oct. 13. Thank you. Meredith Philipp 
I assume we avoid Libya completely.  The question, though, may be how we proceed if we are doing business with someone who has activities in Libya. Your views please. 
Steve, Itochu Corporation, a Japanese trading company with which we are developing a relationship, is considering reactivating its activities in Libya. They have identified an opportunity to source LNG from Libya for the purposes of importing to Japan, either directly or through an LNG swap. What is Enron's current policy on dealing with Libya? 
I may need to spend some time with you in advance, but you don't have to plan on coming here. Mark Schroeder@ECT 10/15/2000 06:32 PM 
trust my non-attendance is okay with Steve.  If not, please so advise, or if he wants my participation by conference call, that could be arranged. thanks  mcs Maureen McVicker@ENRON 12/10/2000 09:52 
The EBR (Executive Business Review) for Public Affairs has been rescheduled: The new date is: DATE:   Monday, Nov. 6 TIME:   8:30 A.M. (block 2 hours on your sched, just in case) PLACE:  EB 50M03 ATTENDEES: Dave Delainey (if schedule permits) John Hardy Steve Kean Ken Lay Elizabeth Linnell Mark Palmer Mark Schroeder (will not be attending) Rick Shapiro Jeff Skilling Jim Steffes Mike Terraso 
I think the presentation looks good.  In the meeting itself I think you should go heavy on the argument that it makes no sense for Sempra shareholders to be in a commodity market as a regulated entity -- the ""heads they win tails you lose"" argument. Jeff Dasovich Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 10/13/2000 06:11 PM 
Attached for your review is a rough cut at slides we're preparing for the meeting with Sempra next Thursday.  Thoughts and comments are appreciated. Please disregard korny title. 
years 
Please make sure that nothing goes out internally or externally without the approval of Cliff Baxter or Mark Metts.  We need to continue our usual vetting process through both PR and IR, but need also to add Cliff and Mark. In getting the OK from Cliff and Mark we must have no OKs by default -- ie because we haven't received comments or a response on time.  If anybody needs help getting to Cliff or Mark, then Mark Palmer, Karen Denne, or I can help. Thanks 
Jimmy, I'll be working up a limited statement and Q&As, which we will need to run by Jeff Sherrick and Mark Metts.  Once we have an approved statement I'll let you know.  Of course, we would prefer to avoid publicity if possible.  Until we have an approved statement, please call me to discuss if you have pressing demands. Thanks, John 
On Friday (last night Houston time) we announced Enron's decision to sell Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. (EOGIL), our subsidary that owns a 30% interest in the Panna, Mukta and Tapti concession areas.    We now have bankers involved and a data room is being prepared in Houston which  made it extremely difficult to keep the deal quiet any longer.  There were a rumors circulating through the office, but the reality of the announcement was still a shock to most of the employees in India and Houston.  Attached is a memo we handed out to employees, but basically we said the following: 1) Selling assets or companies is a routine part of Enron's strategy to redeploy capital in the higher return opportunities.  The company has exposure to a number of tremendous opportunities today that were not envisioned even twelve months ago.  In line with this strategy, we are placing EOGIL in the market. 2) Depending on the success of finding an acceptable buyer for EOGIL,  we will be reviewing the balance of our portfolio for transfer to other Enron entities or for sale as separate packages.  We anticipate closing the EOGIL transaction and rationalizing the remaining portfolio by March 31, 2001. 3) Pending the success outlined in item #2, we will eliminate Enron Global E&P as an Enron business unit on March 31, 2001. 4) We announced some interim staff changes to facilitate the process. a) Jeff Sherrick would re-focus his time largely on the sale process b) Mike Stewart will be responsible for all India activity except the sale process c) Steve Harper will be responsible for EGEP's sale activity and coordination with our bankers and Corporate Development 5) Commented on the potential impact to employees in general terms.  We told them it was pre-mature to outline all of the possibilities until we signed a PSA with a buyer.  However, in general, there is a good likelihood that many people will either have opportunities for future employment with the buyers or through redeployment within Enron.  Those people that do not remain with the assets or are not redeployed in Enron will be involuntarily terminated March 31, 2001 unless they are needed to close a transaction or to provide transition services to a buyer. I would like to keep this as low-keyed as possible.  Last year when we were for sale there were not a lot of comments, but you never know.  If anyone in the media picks up on this I would expect it to happen early next week.  Mike Stewart is currently in India in the Mumbai office (01191228395841) and can be reached at the Mariott after-hours(01191228577878).  He is fully briefed on our position regarding the activities within EGEP and EOGIL.  Mike will be traveling offshore and to Baroda over the weekend and on Monday.  I will be available all weekend and next week at the following numbers; (work) 713-853-5934, (home) 281-320-2198, (cell) 713-569-4713.  I would suggest talking with Mike or I before making any comments to the media if possible. This afternoon I notified our partners and thr Gov't of India of our intention to market our assets.  I will be making a trip to India soon to visit with the appropriate people in these organizations within the next two weeks.  While I wouldn't expect this to happen, please refer any inquiries from our partners (ONGC and Reliance) or the GOI to Mike or me.  As you might expect, we want to be careful and consistent in our message to these groups. I will keep you informed regarding any changes to the above.  If you have any questions, contact me at the above numbers. jeff 
please print 
Tori:  We have contacted Senator Gramm and Majority Leader Armey about the calls from Ken on Monday.  Because of the uncertainty of the Congressional schedule, both offices told us to call on Monday morning to schedule the call.  If Ken wants to make the calls unscheduled, we expect Armey and Gramm to both be in DC by Monday morning. The numbers are as follows: Senator Gramm  (202) 224-2934 Majority Leader Armey (202) 225-4000 Here are the talking points ** CONFIDENTIAL ** Talking Points on Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 Background: We have hit an impasse on the CFTC Reauthorization legislation.  On legal certainty, nearly all interested parties agree.  However, Senator Gramm continues to raise objections unrelated to legal certainty for our business. There are two issues (which we understand have primarily been advanced by Senator Gramm, one on bank products and one on SEC jurisdiction). Majority Leader Dick Armey is trying to gain consensus with the interested parties which include Senator Gramm, the Chairmen of the House Agriculture, Commerce, and Banking Committees, as well as the Department of Treasury, CFTC, and SEC.  Meetings are occurring on a daily basis, but little concrete progress has been made since draft legislation was released on October 9. Talking Points: We need your help to resolve outstanding differences so that the Commodities Futures Modernization Act of 2000 can pass this year.  There are very few legislative days left and movement now on this legislation is essential. Do not let the Congressional calendar be the enemy of gaining legal certainty for this dynamic and growing industry. The current version of the legislation provides important legal certainty for all physical commodity transactions (not including agricultural commodities) entered into on a counterparty-to-counterparty basis or on an electronic trading facility.  We strongly support these provisions. The legislation eliminates concerns that our derivatives transactions may be illegal or that our online platforms may be unregulated futures exchanges. These provisions allow our businesses to grow and innovate.  Without this legislation the industry will be crippled with legal uncertainty and these platforms will develop overseas. Virtually all of the issues in this very complex legislative package have been resolved. We are indifferent to outstanding provisions, except to the extent that they impede passage of the legislation.  We cannot allow the great progress made to date, fail in the end. If asked, about a possible solution to the logjam.  Answer:  Encourage Majority Leader Armey, Senator Gramm, and Secretary Summers to meet immediately to finalize the remaining issues.  Given time constraints, if such a meeting does not occur in the next few days, there may not be enough time to pass this important legislation. Note: Congress will be going out on either October 20 or October 27. 
please print 
As you all may know, we have scheduled a conference call for the group for Thursday, Oct. 19.  Bernadette called each of your assistants, so it should be on your calendars. As a brief update prior to our call: We have a phone call in to FERC to check on the procedural status of the merger.  Donna Fulton, my colleague in Washington, has many contacts at FERC and is working with those people to learn what she can about the status of our proceeding. Joanne is supposed to be meeting with Bob Wasson at the SEC (along with Bill Weedon) early next week to get a sense of where the SEC is on the case. Per Rick's suggestion, I have asked another colleague of mine in Washington, Chris Long, to help us decide who would be the appropriate person to make contact at the SEC if we decide to make that contact.  Chris is working with some political operatives on this. We have been working with Portland General and Sierra on their RTO filing. As you may recall, a commitment to join an RTO (Regional Transmission Organization) is one of the things FERC will require of the merging parties. An RTO filing will be made at FERC on October 23.  While RTO progress has been good so far, Sierra and PGE have indicated that they may have concerns with the RTO they are working with (the Northwest RTO).  We are working with Sierra and PGE to make sure that they do not do anything in the RTO proceeding that could cause concern for FERC regarding the companies' commitment to join an RTO. There was some question about the status of a temporary services company being created by the merged company.  Joanne has been working with the Sierra and PGE people on this issue and does not see this as being a problem now, but I have asked her for confirmation that this ""alternative"" type of service company arrangement will not delay the SEC proceeding.  I am waiting for a response from Joanne. Please let me know if you have any questions. Sarah 
print 
Jimmy, I'll be working up a limited statement and Q&As, which we will need to run by Jeff Sherrick and Mark Metts.  Once we have an approved statement I'll let you know.  Of course, we would prefer to avoid publicity if possible.  Until we have an approved statement, please call me to discuss if you have pressing demands. Thanks, John 
On Friday (last night Houston time) we announced Enron's decision to sell Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. (EOGIL), our subsidary that owns a 30% interest in the Panna, Mukta and Tapti concession areas.    We now have bankers involved and a data room is being prepared in Houston which  made it extremely difficult to keep the deal quiet any longer.  There were a rumors circulating through the office, but the reality of the announcement was still a shock to most of the employees in India and Houston.  Attached is a memo we handed out to employees, but basically we said the following: 1) Selling assets or companies is a routine part of Enron's strategy to redeploy capital in the higher return opportunities.  The company has exposure to a number of tremendous opportunities today that were not envisioned even twelve months ago.  In line with this strategy, we are placing EOGIL in the market. 2) Depending on the success of finding an acceptable buyer for EOGIL,  we will be reviewing the balance of our portfolio for transfer to other Enron entities or for sale as separate packages.  We anticipate closing the EOGIL transaction and rationalizing the remaining portfolio by March 31, 2001. 3) Pending the success outlined in item #2, we will eliminate Enron Global E&P as an Enron business unit on March 31, 2001. 4) We announced some interim staff changes to facilitate the process. a) Jeff Sherrick would re-focus his time largely on the sale process b) Mike Stewart will be responsible for all India activity except the sale process c) Steve Harper will be responsible for EGEP's sale activity and coordination with our bankers and Corporate Development 5) Commented on the potential impact to employees in general terms.  We told them it was pre-mature to outline all of the possibilities until we signed a PSA with a buyer.  However, in general, there is a good likelihood that many people will either have opportunities for future employment with the buyers or through redeployment within Enron.  Those people that do not remain with the assets or are not redeployed in Enron will be involuntarily terminated March 31, 2001 unless they are needed to close a transaction or to provide transition services to a buyer. I would like to keep this as low-keyed as possible.  Last year when we were for sale there were not a lot of comments, but you never know.  If anyone in the media picks up on this I would expect it to happen early next week.  Mike Stewart is currently in India in the Mumbai office (01191228395841) and can be reached at the Mariott after-hours(01191228577878).  He is fully briefed on our position regarding the activities within EGEP and EOGIL.  Mike will be traveling offshore and to Baroda over the weekend and on Monday.  I will be available all weekend and next week at the following numbers; (work) 713-853-5934, (home) 281-320-2198, (cell) 713-569-4713.  I would suggest talking with Mike or I before making any comments to the media if possible. This afternoon I notified our partners and thr Gov't of India of our intention to market our assets.  I will be making a trip to India soon to visit with the appropriate people in these organizations within the next two weeks.  While I wouldn't expect this to happen, please refer any inquiries from our partners (ONGC and Reliance) or the GOI to Mike or me.  As you might expect, we want to be careful and consistent in our message to these groups. I will keep you informed regarding any changes to the above.  If you have any questions, contact me at the above numbers. jeff 
Thank you for your suggestions during our phone conversation the other day. 
print first attachment only 
Attached is the weekly report for week ending October 13. Also attached is the Order 637 Update. 
print 
Since the defeat of the Senate pipeline safety legislation earlier this week in the House, we have been working on strategies related to action that could occur before the end of the congressional session.  The following developments indicate that the legislation is still very much in play, but our primary concerns are making sure efforts going forward remain under control and preventing the passage of legislation that goes too far. Developments: House Republican leadership is not interested in pursuing the legislation any further, either through regular procedures or as an attachment to appropriations, ""omnibus"" or other must-pass measures.   They are somewhat angry at the industry for not being able to fight off advances made by Reps. Dingell and Oberstar, who were able to persuade enough Democrats to vote against the Senate bill so that it fell short of the 2/3 needed for passage under suspension of the rules. Senate bill sponsors/supporters are extremely angry at House Democrats for killing the Senate legislation, and at the White House/DOT for not strongly promoting the Senate bill (which they previously had supported) and reigning in House Democrats.   Senator Patty Murray called the White House and expressed her concern, which prompted a series of meetings between staff for Senate and House Democrats and the White House to discuss a solution. In these meetings, House Democrats have proposed adding several provisions from the Dingell/Oberstar legislation to the Senate bill and moving that package on an omnibus or appropriations bill.   Sources close to Rep. Dingell indicate that they really do not want any bill at all, and are merely keeping up the pressure in an effort to see if they can get the Senate or industry to accept tougher provisions. Senate Democrats (including Murray, Bingaman, and Breaux) are not accepting any possible amendments to the original Senate bill, and are opposed to changing the Senate bill at all.   However, Senator Murray and Republican Senator Slade Gorton (who has a tough election) both want to continue to pursue the Senate bill (unamended) as a rider to an omnibus/appropriations bill. The White House is looking to cover itself from a poor performance in the House, and is considering drafting an executive order that could be issued if no legislation passes at all.  It is unclear what could or would be contained in such an order, but the White House is indicating to Senate staff that it would be more like the Senate bill than the House bill.  We are working with sources close to the White House to confirm their strategy. Strategy going forward: Upon hearing that some industry associations were on Capitol Hill discussing ""what industry could live with"" in terms of provisions added to the Senate bill, I insisted (along with El Paso and others) that we not take such an approach, but rather remain consistent in our approach -- we support the Senate bill and only the Senate bill.   It was approved unanimously in the Senate and by 60% of the House, and if anything moves forward on an omnibus/appropriations bill, it should be the Senate bill.  Consistent with what our Senate friends are doing, we should not even recognize the Dingell/Oberstar legislation as a serious proposal, nor start accepting pieces of it as a compromise. We will be shoring up support for our position of ""if anything moves forward, it should be the Senate bill only"" with Senate supporters and leadership in the House and Senate.  We will also be working to thank the 51 Democrats who supported us in the House, and make sure they have any cover they need in case their vote becomes an issue.   In support of Senator Gorton's election troubles, we will be working to try to get media placement of op-eds that support the efforts he has waged and make sure the House Democrats shoulder the blame for the bill's defeat.  In particular, we are hopeful that Senator McCain (who has been passionate about this issue) will write op-eds that can be placed to support Gorton and others in tough races who supported the Senate bill. Congress' state of confusion over omnibus/appropriations bills and last minute politics causes the legislative activity to be extremely fluid and subject to change rapidly, so we will have no real certainty until the session is over (which now could be as late as October 20). I will keep you posted as changes and developments occur. 
coule you get Jeannie copies of the slides or other write ups you have on this. Jeannie -- I don't know how far it is prudent to take a position on this as a co.  It has already become a key battleground (garnering some discussion in the Gore-Lieberman debate).  I think we stay away from it as a co., but we at least ought to put the information in front of anyone we are asking to do an oped so that they can make a reasoned judgement. 
Hi -- I'm working on a dual gas/power op-ed (the former DeLay op-ed). I have Enron's message points on higher gas prices, but I wondered if we were taking a position on expanding natural gas exploration as Gov. Bush proposes -- onto more federal lands, particularly in Alaska. I read somewhere that 40% of potential US reserves are on federal lands. Thanks for your help, 
please print 
I've revised both the backgrounder and message point documents. 
print 
eCompany Now, a Fortune Magazine publication focused on e-business, is writing a feature on Enron.  The editor, Erick Schonfeld, will be in Houston on Friday, October 13 to conduct interviews.  The focus of the story is, once again, Enron's transformation to a new economy powerhouse and a successful eCommerce company. Erick is interested in your views on: How Enron has evolved, both operationally and culturally, from a pipeline company to an e-business market maker Your role in Enron's overall strategy Your vision for the future of your business Where you see Enron in the near future The interview schedule is as follows: 10-10:30 Tour - ENA 10:30-11:00 Greg Piper (clickpaper.com) 11-12  Ken Rice (EBS) 12-12:30 Tour - EBS 2-3  Jeff Skilling (corporate overview) I will bring Erick to your office at the scheduled time and will coordinate any follow-up inquiries.  Please contact me if you have any questions. Thank you, Meredith 
RELATING TO TRANSACTIONS IN ENRON CORP. COMMON STOCK 
please print 
C. RULES=20 RELATING TO TRANSACTIONS IN ENRON CORP. COMMON STOCK I have been asked to make a brief presentation at next Monday=01,s Executiv= e=20 Committee meeting addressing a new S.E.C. insider trading rule.  Although t= he=20 new rule may increase exposure to liability for insider trading, certain=20 provisions of the new rule may actually provide for greater flexibility in= =20 the timing of your personal trades in Enron Corp. common stock.  Attached i= s=20 a short memo addressing our current Company procedures and policies for=20 trading, the new S.E.C. rule, and some suggestions for alternatives that yo= u=20 may want to consider concerning your personal trades in Enron Corp. common= =20 stock.  If anyone wants to discuss the new rule and the trading alternative= s=20 provided by the new rule before next week=01,s meeting, please don=01,t hes= itate to=20 give me a call at 713-853-3069.  Thank you. Attachments =20 
print 
A Trio of Little Guys Embarks on Wild Ride In Global Oil Market --- Pursuing Business With DOE, Their Paths Diverge; One Leads to `a Lot of Money' By Wall Street Journal staff reporters John Fialka in Denver, Alexei Barrionuevo in Tallahassee, Fla., and Jonathan Weil in New York ? 10/16/2000 The Wall Street Journal Page A1 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) Lance Stroud of New York, Renard D. Euell of Denver and Ronald Peek of Tallahassee, Fla., all had dreams of becoming oil barons. And on Oct. 4, when the Department of Energy announced the results of the bidding for oil from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, they thought their ships had come in. Two of the three black entrepreneurs were unknowns in the industry, and none of them had ever done a major oil deal. But there they were, listed as winning bidders alongside some of the biggest names in the business -- Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., BP Amoco PLC and Amerada Hess Corp. Each would be given the right to withdraw millions of barrels of oil from the reserve amid one of the most volatile oil markets in decades. In exchange, each had offered to replace that oil, plus an additional amount akin to an interest payment, a year later. They and the other winning bidders, the Energy Department said, were picked soley because they pledged to return the biggest quantities of oil to the reserve. There was just one catch: In its rush to release the oil and so ease a price crunch, the Energy Department had suspended its usual requirement that each bidder supply financial guarantees. But it wanted the winning bidders to present letters of credit, equal to the oil's market value, five days after their bids were submitted. The big players could easily meet that requirement. But Messrs. Stroud, Euell and Peek were men of limited means. They needed to find someone willing to back them for tens of millions of dollars -- and fast. The drama made for an unaccustomed scene in Harlem, where the 35-year-old Mr. Stroud lived with his 74-year-old mother. A heavy-set man with a goatee, Mr. Stroud, a former Army enlisted man who had dropped out of college shy of graduation, had held a string of odd jobs while using the Internet to seek out a big business deal. The aspiring oil man had entered his bid for four million barrels from the reserve, via the Internet. He won't discuss the details of his bid, but says he thought he could outbid the large oil companies because he didn't have as much overhead. After the winning bids were announced, Mr. Stroud became something of a celebrity. TV news crews arrived to interview his neighbors, many of whom had no idea what all the fuss was about. ""I thought he [Mr. Stroud] was some kind of rap star,"" recalls Carline Thomas, who lives down the hall from him. As neighbors paused to shoot the breeze on the steps of nearby residential buildings, most marred by graffiti, Wall Street couriers bearing fat packets of information spent the week scurrying back and forth from Mr. Stroud's apartment on a seedy block in Harlem's central business district. Inside Mr. Stroud's apartment, the telephone wouldn't stop ringing, and his mother was helping him field the calls. He says he was in serious talks with four companies. And a movie producer was interested in his life story. Then, amid the chaos, tragedy struck. On Tuesday night, his mother, Iris Manning, suffered a cardiac arrest, and was taken to a hospital a few blocks south of Mr. Stroud's apartment. Mr. Stroud said he spent most of Wednesday running between his apartment and the hospital, taking occasional phone calls to deal with prospective financiers. Ms. Manning went into cardiac arrest three more times, and died at 9:47 p.m. Wednesday evening. Mr. Stroud was dazed by the fact that what he called the two biggest events of his life -- the death of his mother and his selection by the Energy Department -- occurred almost simultaneously. ""I'm saying `there must be some reason I'm here,' "" he said later. ""These things happening like this, the 
please print 
Tonight by a vote of 91/2 (although Senator Wellstone was asking to switch his vote; so the final vote may end up being 90/3) the Senate passed the Conference Report on the DOD Reauthorization, H.R. 4205.  With the overwhelming majority votes in both the House and Senate this week, the bill will now be enrolled and sent to the President for signature. Although the statutory language and report language is a clear victory for EFS; we did not in the end have the draft colloquy entered into the record regarding the enforcement interpretation.  Seems EEI's lawyers had submitted a colloquy of their own.  Thus, our colloquy successfully served the purpose of blocking theirs which we should list as a ""victory"" given that their colloquy would have been damaging to us.  So in the end, Enron achieved all its legislative goals while EEI was unsuccessful in even gaining a statement for the record. Off the record, we did gain acceptance for the issue raised in our colloquy by DOD and they stand ready to defend their enforcement authority; possibly at the upcoming NARUC meeting. Bill signature; and thus, Public Law enactment, could occur as early as next week.  We will keep you advised as to when this occurs.  Again, congratulations to the team for a successful legislative effort against some 
do we need bus cards 
Please be aware that the following internet domains for messaging will be decommissioned on OCTOBER 14, 2000 : @ect.enron.com @ei.enron.com @enron.co.uk After OCTOBER 14, 2000, internet emails addressed to employees using the above internet domain names will be no longer be delivered. Please note that this applies to Enron employees worldwide. All employees must now use their @enron.com internet address. Some employees are still receiving internet email, primarily subscriptions to internet-based news/update services, addressed to their @ect.enron.com, @ei.enron.com or @enron.co.uk email address.   As mails to these addresses will no longer be delivered after OCTOBER 14, 2000 please contact the service providers to specify your new @enron.com internet address. Any employees who are aware of the following should contact the Resolution Center on ext. 31411 immediately : Applications/processes using @ect.enron.com, @ei.enron.com or @enron.co.uk internet addresses Distribution groups being addressed via the internet using @ect.enron.com, e.g. Enron.London.Developers@ect.enron.com Please direct any questions to the Resolution Center at ext. 31411. Thanks for your cooperation. 
EEI Presents . . . RTO Summaries: The October Filings Full summaries of the October RTO Filings, available in pdf format, no later than October 30, 2000. Order Today! RTO Summaries: The October Filings This timely, essential, cost-effective resource will include: ?  Introduction and Summary Matrix of Each RTO filing ?  Coverage for each RTO filing: -  Each of the twelve characteristics and functions -  What is proposed -  How it comports with Order No. 2000 -  Additional Comments ?  Summary of individual company filings to join an RTO or alternative filing ?  Individual map of each RTO Plan Ahead and Order EEI's RTO Summaries: The January Filings Now. Buy both sets and save. RTO Summaries: The October Filings Item # 13-00-14 List Price: $995.00 EEI Associate Members: $895.00 EEI Utility Members: $795.00 Government: $195.00 RTO Summaries: The January Filings Item # 13-00-05 List Price: $995.00 EEI Associate Members: $895.00 EEI Utility Members: $795.00 Government: $195.00 RTO Summaries: The October and January Filings Item # 13-00-06 List Price: $1895.00 EEI Associate Members: $1695.00 EEI Utility Members: $1495.00 Government: $295.00 Ordering information: Call EEI at 1-800-EEI-5453 (U.S. & Canada) or 301-645-4222 (International) to place your order.  Once payment has been received, a pdf file will be e-mailed to you. Product Questions: Contact Jay Carriere at (202) 508-5525 or jcarriere@eei.org 
Value 
print 
holder=20 Value http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************=20 El Paso Global Networks plans to spend up to $2 billion in the next few=20 years on telecom acquisitions.  Find out more about SCIENTECH'S=20 Telecommunications=20 InfoGrid at:=20 http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************ =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH IssueAlert, October 12, 2000 Reliant Energy: Splitting Business in Two to Maximize Shareholder Value By: Will McNamara, Director, Electric Industry Analysis =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D Reliant Energy announced the top-level executives for the two companies=20 that will emerge from its planned separation into two stand-alone, publicly= =20 separated companies. Steve Letbetter will serve as chairman and CEO of=20 the unregulated company. David McClanahan has been named president and=20 CEO of the regulated company, which will be created at the time of the=20 business separation. In July, Reliant Energy announced plans to separate=20 into two publicly traded companies in order to separate its unregulated=20 businesses from its regulated businesses. Following regulatory approval,=20 the company plans an initial public offering (IPO) of approximately 20=20 percent of the common stock of its unregulated operations by early 2001. ANALYSIS: In June 1999, Texas adopted legislation to allow retail competiti= on=20 beginning on Jan. 1, 2002, for the majority of customers within the state.= =20 Senate Bill 7 mandated that utilities in the state construct firewalls=20 between their operating companies. In other words, Texas utilities must=20 have separate companies=01*with separate financial records=01*for energy se= rvices,=20 distribution, generation, etc. In Texas, incumbent utilities must establish= =20 affiliated retail units that will serve customers who do not switch, but=20 these units must be completely separate from the T&D operation of the=20 incumbent=20 utility. At first, Reliant Energy resisted this mandate and lobbied to=20 keep its operations under one company. Thus, it was somewhat of a surprise= =20 when Reliant announced in July that not only would it be splitting into=20 two publicly traded companies, but also that it would be issuing an IPO=20 for the unregulated side of its operations. Currently, as one company with= =20 both regulated and unregulated operations, Reliant (NYSE: REI) is trading= =20 at about $45 13/16 (at market close on 10/11). Reliant has declined to=20 make any projections about pricing of the IPO of its unregulated businesses= ,=20 which it expects to issue in early 2001, until it submits an S1 filing=20 with the SEC later this year. Reliant expects the IPO to be followed by=20 a distribution to shareholders of the remaining stock of the unregulated=20 company (within 12 months of the IPO). Reliant's motivations to divide itself into two companies are pretty=20 straightforward.=20 On one hand, the company is simply complying with the regulatory mandates= =20 of Texas. Yet, more importantly, Reliant is turning the mandate into a=20 financial opportunity by establishing two public companies with dramaticall= y=20 different risk / reward profiles. The unregulated side will include such=20 businesses as power generation, marketing and trading, telecom, and the=20 European operations. The regulated side will include the businesses related= =20 to electricity and natural-gas distribution as well as the company's U.S.= =20 interstate pipelines. Reliant is a company that is seeking to maximize the opportunities that=20 deregulation is offering, both in the United States and internationally.=20 As an international energy delivery and energy services company, Reliant=20 makes about $15 billion in annual revenue and has assets totaling $30=20 billion.=20 The company's wholesale energy trading and marketing business is arguably= =20 within the top five (definitely within the top 10) in the United States,=20 supported by its nearly 27,000 MW of power generation assets.=20 As the company continues to transform itself from a traditional utility=20 into an aggressive energy services company, it recognizes that its=20 traditional=20 investors have tended to be fairly risk averse, preferring to invest in=20 the regulated activities of a conservative utility company. As Reliant=20 attempts to penetrate new competitive markets, it intends to make itself=20 an appealing investment opportunity for investors who are more ""growth=20 oriented and tolerant of risk,"" (as described by Letbetter). The most=20 practical=20 way to maximize shareholder interest and boost stock value is for Reliant= =20 to bifurcate its operations, offering two options for capital investment.= =20 It's a trend that is becoming more common in the energy industry, especiall= y=20 with regard to high-risk ventures. For instance, Southern Company just=20 closed the IPO of its aggressive subsidiary Southern Energy (NYSE: SOE)=20 on Oct. 3. Southern Energy, a global energy company, has become one of=20 Southern Company's primary moneymakers (in the second-quarter alone, the=20 subsidiary reported $93 million in earnings). When the IPO of Southern=20 Energy closed, it brought total gross proceeds and a concurrent securities= =20 of approximately $1.81 billion to its parent. Southern Energy's current=20 stock price is running at $29 1/8 (at market close on 10/11). The IPO price= =20 of Southern Energy on 9/27 was $22. Another example is Northern States=20 Power (now part of Xcel Energy since it merged with New Century Energies),= =20 which this June spun off a portion of its NRG Energy subsidiary, an=20 independent=20 power producer. (See IssueAlert from 10/2/00 for more information). In=20 addition, the trend is visible in other industries as well. AT&T recently= =20 announced its plans to spin off its customer long-distance business to=20 shareholders. However, even though the financial rewards of such an IPO are enticing,=20 there are possible downsides to such a move as well. Moody's raised serious= =20 concerns about Reliant's announcement in particular. Specifically, Moody's= =20 says that Reliant's regulated unit could be left with heavy debt loads=20 after the structural split, which would hurt its own quality and bond=20 ratings.=20 Moody's has put both Reliant Energy Inc. and at least two of its subsidiari= es=20 on watch for possible downgrade from their Baa 1 status. Reliant remains=20 on watch for possible downgrade as of Oct. 11. Another risk is that as=20 more spin offs of non-generation units become commonplace, they may lose=20 their appeal on Wall Street. The average first-day gain for similar energy= =20 IPOs was 43 percent in the third quarter, compared to 96.5 percent in the= =20 first quarter, perhaps indicating that Wall Street is already becoming=20 less enamored with this strategy. Yet, these risks aren't dissuading Reliant from moving forward with its=20 plan. As the company retains but moves beyond its traditional electricity= =20 and natural-gas distribution businesses, Reliant's focus is to expand its= =20 current business portfolio. By splitting its two operations in two, Reliant= =20 can separate its vastly different regulated and unregulated cultures. The= =20 companies require totally different management approaches, one based more= =20 in regulatory relations and the other driven by entrepreneurial spirit.=20 The freedom Reliant gains from spinning off its operations into two separat= e=20 businesses=01*one high risk, one low risk=01*appears to make this a smart m= ove,=20 at least for now. =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D Discover a world of utilities information in our new e-zine, SourceBook=20 Online.  Get a free SourceBook Weekly article at: http://www.consultrci.com/web/rciweb.nsf/Web+Pages/SBEntrance.html =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH is pleased to provide you with your free, daily IssueAlert. Let= =20 us know if we can help you with in-depth analyses or any other SCIENTECH=20 information products including e-commerce and telecom in the electric utili= ty=20 industry. If you would like to refer a colleague to receive our free, daily= =20 IssueAlerts, please reply to this email and include their full name and=20 email address or register directly at: http://www.consultrci.com/web/infostore.nsf/Products/IssueAlert Sincerely, Will McNamara Director, Electric Industry Analysis wmcnamara@scientech.com =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D Feedback regarding SCIENTECH's IssueAlert should be sent to=20 wmcnamara@scientech.com =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are compiled based on independent analysis by=20 SCIENTECH=20 consultants.  The opinions expressed in SCIENTECH's IssueAlerts are not=20 intended to predict financial performance of companies discussed or to=20 be the basis for investment decisions of any kind.  SCIENTECH's sole purpos= e=20 in publishing its IssueAlerts is to offer an independent perspective=20 regarding=20 the key events occurring in the energy industry, based on its long-standing= =20 reputation as an expert on energy and telecommunications issues. Copyright 2000.  SCIENTECH, Inc. If you do not wish to receive any further IssueAlerts from SCIENTECH, pleas= e=20 
Enron Global Markets LLC - Office of the Chairman We are pleased to announce the following organization changes within Enron= =20 Global Markets (EGM). Larry Lawyer will be joining EGM effective immediately to lead our new=20 finance activities.  In this role, he will work with all commodity products= ,=20 assets, and teams worldwide to lever our existing businesses with this new= =20 focus.  Larry has worked as treasurer and was responsible for 3rd party=20 financing for EBS for the last year.  He has worked for Enron for 4 1/2 yea= rs=20 in various positions in the finance area.  He will be reporting to the Offi= ce=20 of the Chairman. Eric Gonzales will be joining the LNG team and will co-head this effort wit= h=20 Rick Bergsieker.  We believe there is significant opportunity in the=20 worldwide LNG markets, and Eric will direct all merchant activity and focus= =20 on the Atlantic regions of the world.  He will also manage the LNG shipping= =20 book.  Eric is located in the London office and also has responsibility for= =20 leading the newly formed Pool Markets origination group reporting to Joe=20 Gold.   =20 Rick Bergsieker has relocated to Dubai, in the UAE.  He is responsible for= =20 all Middle East activities and projects, managing the Puerto Rico assets an= d=20 will co-head the worldwide LNG efforts.  Rick has over 20 years of LNG=20 experience and together, he and Eric will form an outstanding leadership te= am=20 as we expand Enron=01,s LNG activities around the world.  They both will re= port=20 to the Office of the Chairman. =20 Jennifer Fraser will come over and develop our market fundamentals group fo= r=20 all products in EGM, much like ENA natural gas and power fundamentals and= =20 Intranet pages existing today.  Previously, Jennifer was working in the Mid= =20 Market origination group.  Heather Purcell will be joining this group=20 developing the commercial interface for our Intranet page.  Heather was wit= h=20 Azurix, where she worked on the platform interface for their eBusiness=20 initiatives.=20 Gary Hickerson will be chairing our Traders=01, Roundtable.  This new group= will=20 be comprised of traders across Enron's wholesale trading and risk managemen= t=20 businesses.  This forum will give traders the opportunity to discuss topics= =20 important to their individual markets, and to learn and explore other marke= ts=20 in a macro sense.  Also, we will be forming a cross-commodity trading group= . =20 Traders who have shown extremely strong and consistent profitability will= =20 have the opportunity to join this group and to exploit cross-commodity=20 opportunities with a bias toward structural shifts in markets.  This group= =20 will not be involved in customer activity and will execute through our=20 principal desks.   Gary will manage this new group, as well as continuing= =20 with his current F/X, Rates, Equity, and Agriculture initiatives.=20 Please join us in congratulating everyone on their new positions. =20 Organization charts outlining the entire EGM organization are available upo= n=20 request from Cathy Phillips. 
This could become a very deep pit.  I don't want to distract you from the= =20 primary mission, but there may be a solution which gets them what they need= =20 and doesn't pull you away from the North American effort -- you could=20 ""deputize"" Jane Wilson to help out on this.  Jane, as usual, has embedded= =20 herself deeply in the Enron India organization as VP of Gov't Affairs and c= an=20 be a sound source of information for you as well as an agent for you in=20 India.  Think about contacting her and getting her help. Also, we have never explicitly talked about whether your focus is North=20 American or world wide.  My view is that it is worldwide, but that has to b= e=20 heavily modified by the fact that most Enron employees (current and probabl= y=20 future) are here; while the US has many deficiencies in its education syste= m,=20 graduate education here is the best in the world; and we need to show rapid= =20 early success (and that's best accomplished by sticking close to home at=20 least initially). Christie Patrick@ECT 10/16/2000 05:18 PM =20 
Mark, Steve, I'd be happy to get us involved with this, but I'm not sure how we're=20 handling non-North American University affairs. Please let me know and I'll follow up with Rajesh. Thanks! --Christie. 
If you can cover it I would say yes.  It's a key race and we have been close to Ashcroft for years.  Let's make sure he knows we gave it.... we need to follow up with him.  Last time I talked to him he basically recited the utilities' position on electric restructuring.  Let's make it clear that we want to talk right after the election. Joe Hillings 10/16/2000 04:41 PM 
Joe Hillings Enron 1775 Eye Street, NW Suite 800 Washington, DC  20006 202-466-9145 202-828-3372 (fax) email:  jhillin@enron.com We have received a request from the Ashcroft Senate campaign for $10,000 in soft money. This is the race where Governor Carnahan is the challenger. Enron PAC has contributed $10,000 and Enron has also contributed $15,000 soft money in this campaign to Senator Ashcroft. Ken Lay has been personally interested in the Ashcroft campaign. Our polling information is that Ashcroft is currently leading 43 to 38 with an undecided of 19 percent. Do we want to make a further soft money contriubtion of $10,000? Joe 
How did this happen? 
Enron Brazil To Invest $455 Million In Gas Distribution '01-'04 10/16/2000 Dow Jones International News (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) RIO DE JANEIRO -(Dow Jones)- Enron Corp. (ENE) said Monday it will invest $455 million in its gas distribution business in Brazil from 2001 to 2004. Robert Gross, vice president of Enron's Brazilian unit, also said the company plans to spend $970 million on thermoelectric projects, but he didn't specify any timetables for the projects. Gross said Enron will spend $142 million on gas distribution projects next year in Brazil. Currently, Brazil's energy regulator Aneel is in the process of licensing companies to build and operate a total of 44 new thermoelectric plants. U.S.-based Enron primarily operates in Brazil as a gas and energy distributor. -By Adriana Brasileiro, Dow Jones Newswires; 5521-580-9394; adriana.brasileiro@dowjones.com Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
fyi, the attached release which mentions PGE as one of six utilities forming an independent transmission company is scheduled to be released today. 
Joe and Tom:  Either Bill Ford is a major Democrat or this signals a major shift which serves as a strong indicator that Congress will face new pressures next Congress to address Global Warming.  This is truly a remarkable speech. FORD PREDICTS END OF CAR POLLUTION The Independent (UK) 6 October 2000 Internet: http://www.independent.co.uk/news/UK/Environment/2000-10/ford061000.shtml The 100-year reign of the polluting internal combustion engine is coming to an end, Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Company, said yesterday. It will soon be replaced in motor vehicles by the hydrogen fuel cell, which emits no pollution whatsoever and so can reduce the build-up of greenhouse gases causing climate change, Mr. Ford, great-grandson of the company's founder, Henry Ford, told the Greenpeace Business Conference in London. In a remarkable speech from a motor manufacturer, in which he proclaimed his own environmental credentials, Mr. Ford, 43, accepted that the automobile had had a serious negative impact on the environment, and that his industry had wrongly played down the threat from global warming.  And the head of the world's second biggest car company raised eyebrows even further when he said that he could foresee the day when people would not want to own cars, but merely have access to mobility. Detroit-born Mr. Ford, who has been chairman since the start of last year, proclaimed that climate change was the most challenging issue facing the world and that anyone who disagreed was ""in denial"". Ford itself had moved on from that position, he said. But he felt the Kyoto protocol, the 1997 pact in which the industrialised nations agreed to try to limit their emission of greenhouse gases, would not provide deep enough cuts to halt global warming. Only the marketplace, making new technology widely available, could tackle the problem. A fuel cell creates energy by an electrochemical process similar to that in a battery: it lets hydrogen and oxygen react together to produce electricity and water vapour. It does not run down or need recharging, working as long as the hydrogen fuel is available, but most importantly, it does not produce any CO2, the basic by-product of any carbon-based fuel such as oil, gas or coal. Every major car company in the world is throwing huge sums into developing the technology: Ford is spending $1bn (?690m) between now and 2004, while Daimler-Chrysler, regarded as the leader in the field, has spent $700m. All the main manufacturers have prototype fuel-cell cars running and there is a race to bring them to market. Honda and Toyota expect to do so in 2003, while Ford and Daimler-Chrysler are aiming at 2004. ""I believe fuel cells will finally end the 100-year reign of the internal combustion engine,"" Mr. Ford said, adding that the technology was ""the holy grail"" of the motor industry. Prophesying the demise of car ownership, he said:  ""The day will come when the whole notion of car ownership is antiquated,"" he said. Mr. Ford was reflecting advanced motor industry thinking, which suggests many people might not want to pay for a car of their own if they could be guaranteed mobility on demand from a local hire network. 
Thank you for indicating your intention to attend the office opening. Attached please find guest information checklist. It would be grateful if you could arrange to complete and return the checklist by e-mail at your earliest convenience. Best regards, Hiroko Ono Assistant to Joe Hirl 
Thank you for indicating your intention to attend the office opening. Attached please find guest information checklist. It would be grateful if you could arrange to complete and return the checklist by e-mail at your earliest convenience. Best regards, Hiroko Ono Assistant to Joe Hirl 
One of the things you should include in your report to Koenig and Frevert is our preliminary views on the RTO filings.  Perhaps it's simply that we are not going to be satisfied until FERC forces nondiscriminatory access and we will object to every filing and fight every shortcoming. 
I have now sent out the PJM filing to some of you.  If anyone else wants it, let me know. SPP is supposed to file tomorrow.  The same law firm is representing them so 
calendar and meeting file 
Thank you for agreeing to serve on the WorkLife Executive Council.  Please join Cindy Olson and myself for our first meeting, which is scheduled on Monday, October 30, from 2:00-3:30 p.m. in Conference Room EB-42c1.  The purpose of the meeting is to review and approve the WorkLife Executive Council Charter and general operations for the Council.  In addition, a presentation on Telecommuting and Sabbaticals will be provided for the Council's first consideration. An agenda and attachments will be forwarded to each of you for your review prior to the meeting on the 30th. Please RSVP your attendance to my assistant, SheriJordan, via email at sheri.jordan@enron.com or by telephone to ext. 3-7812. Thank you. Sent by:  Steven J Kean@ENRON 
12:48 PM Joe and Tom:  Either Bill Ford is a major Democrat or this signals a major shift which serves as a strong indicator that Congress will face new pressures next Congress to address Global Warming.  This is truly a remarkable speech. FORD PREDICTS END OF CAR POLLUTION The Independent (UK) 6 October 2000 Internet: http://www.independent.co.uk/news/UK/Environment/2000-10/ford061000.shtml The 100-year reign of the polluting internal combustion engine is coming to an end, Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Company, said yesterday. It will soon be replaced in motor vehicles by the hydrogen fuel cell, which emits no pollution whatsoever and so can reduce the build-up of greenhouse gases causing climate change, Mr. Ford, great-grandson of the company's founder, Henry Ford, told the Greenpeace Business Conference in London. In a remarkable speech from a motor manufacturer, in which he proclaimed his own environmental credentials, Mr. Ford, 43, accepted that the automobile had had a serious negative impact on the environment, and that his industry had wrongly played down the threat from global warming.  And the head of the world's second biggest car company raised eyebrows even further when he said that he could foresee the day when people would not want to own cars, but merely have access to mobility. Detroit-born Mr. Ford, who has been chairman since the start of last year, proclaimed that climate change was the most challenging issue facing the world and that anyone who disagreed was ""in denial"". Ford itself had moved on from that position, he said. But he felt the Kyoto protocol, the 1997 pact in which the industrialised nations agreed to try to limit their emission of greenhouse gases, would not provide deep enough cuts to halt global warming. Only the marketplace, making new technology widely available, could tackle the problem. A fuel cell creates energy by an electrochemical process similar to that in a battery: it lets hydrogen and oxygen react together to produce electricity and water vapour. It does not run down or need recharging, working as long as the hydrogen fuel is available, but most importantly, it does not produce any CO2, the basic by-product of any carbon-based fuel such as oil, gas or coal. Every major car company in the world is throwing huge sums into developing the technology: Ford is spending $1bn (?690m) between now and 2004, while Daimler-Chrysler, regarded as the leader in the field, has spent $700m. All the main manufacturers have prototype fuel-cell cars running and there is a race to bring them to market. Honda and Toyota expect to do so in 2003, while Ford and Daimler-Chrysler are aiming at 2004. ""I believe fuel cells will finally end the 100-year reign of the internal combustion engine,"" Mr. Ford said, adding that the technology was ""the holy grail"" of the motor industry. Prophesying the demise of car ownership, he said:  ""The day will come when the whole notion of car ownership is antiquated,"" he said. Mr. Ford was reflecting advanced motor industry thinking, which suggests many people might not want to pay for a car of their own if they could be guaranteed mobility on demand from a local hire network. 
please check schedule and get back to Irwin's office. 
I believe that you agreed at our last meeting that it might be well for you and me -- and Ken if available -- to discuss plans for this group in 2001. My feeling is that we should review its composition after the election -- we may lose Larry or want to add a Democrat (Laura Tyson?); we can take a hard look at who is contributing and who isn't etc. My agenda would be: 1. What can be done to increase the value to Enron? As I see it we have two purposes: to create fans of and spokepersons for the company in important fora, and to enrich management's understanding of the outside world (what it is like, and how it views some of the problems that Enron faces). 2. What are the likely topics that it would be valuable for Enron to discuss in 2001, as best we can judge things at this early point in time? 3. What should the composition of the group consist of in 2001, given whatever we decide in #1 and #2 above. 4. How can we maximize the chance of achieving Ken's objective of attracting outside guest speakers? Advance scheduling? Fees? And what sorts would we like to attract? I am sure there are many other items; these are designed merely to start you thinking. Let me start the bidding by suggesting November 29 or December 4, inn Washington if you happen to be in town, in Houston if that is more convenient. 
Washington would be fine .... there's always plenty to do there.  I got a note from Ken asking that you and I have the first meeting and come back to him withrecommendations.  I agree with the agenda you have set out. It may also be worth discussing how we can use the individual  members of this group outside of the meetings with the  Enron Exec Committee: there may be efforts elsewhere in the company which would benefit from the advice and input of members of the group. Stelzer@aol.com 10/06/2000 10:33 AM 
I believe that you agreed at our last meeting that it might be well for you and me -- and Ken if available -- to discuss plans for this group in 2001. My feeling is that we should review its composition after the election -- we may lose Larry or want to add a Democrat (Laura Tyson?); we can take a hard look at who is contributing and who isn't etc. My agenda would be: 1. What can be done to increase the value to Enron? As I see it we have two purposes: to create fans of and spokepersons for the company in important fora, and to enrich management's understanding of the outside world (what it is like, and how it views some of the problems that Enron faces). 2. What are the likely topics that it would be valuable for Enron to discuss in 2001, as best we can judge things at this early point in time? 3. What should the composition of the group consist of in 2001, given whatever we decide in #1 and #2 above. 4. How can we maximize the chance of achieving Ken's objective of attracting outside guest speakers? Advance scheduling? Fees? And what sorts would we like to attract? I am sure there are many other items; these are designed merely to start you thinking. Let me start the bidding by suggesting November 29 or December 4, inn Washington if you happen to be in town, in Houston if that is more convenient. 
Thanks for the resume.  I don't see a fit in government affairs, but I am forwarding to community relations to see if there is any interest there. Mark Courtney@ECT 10/12/2000 10:29 AM 
Steve, Ned Higgins fowarded this to me.  Evidently Kara's fiance is former ECT and has just moved to KMI.  She has responded to the TW job posting, but she might be a better fit somewhere else.  Thought you might want to look over the resume. Mark 
Per our conversation. 
fyi 
http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************=20 A new SCIENTECH PowerHitter interview with E. Linn Draper, Chairman,=20 President,=20 and CEO of American Electric Power, is now available.  Find out more at: http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************ =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH IssueAlert, October 18, 2000 Fuel Cells Get Financial Boost from U.S. Government By: Will McNamara, Director, Electric Industry Analysis =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D The Department of Energy will have more than $100 million for fuel cell=20 related programs in the new fiscal year, $10 million above the president's= =20 request. The money is contained in the Interior Appropriation bill that=20 President Clinton signed last week. The House and Senate jointly agreed=20 upon $52.7 million for stationary fuel cells, $10 million more than=20 requested,=20 and approved the full request of $41.5 million for transportation fuel=20 cell research and $5.5 million for buildings. ANALYSIS: This government funding, which is surprisingly higher than=20 expected,=20 should give a much-needed boost to the slow-moving development of fuel=20 cells. Although generally considered the favorite of low / zero emission=20 energy solutions, fuel cells are still about two to three years away from= =20 being commercially viable in retail markets. (Phosphoric acid fuel cells,= =20 developed by ONSI, a division of United Technologies, are presently availab= le=20 in a limited capacity). The technology has been in existence ever since=20 batteries were discovered 160 years ago, but the high cost of producing=20 them has precluded suppliers from making fuel cells readily available to=20 the general public. Automotive giants like DaimlerChrysler and Ford Motor= =20 Co. have continued to explore the use of fuel cells in automobiles, and=20 Texaco, Inc. agreed in May to invest $67.2 million in Energy Conversion=20 Devices, a 40-year-old fuel cell and alternative energy development firm.= =20 Yet, this financial support for the DOE's exploration of fuel cells signals= =20 significant support from the federal government. In addition, warnings=20 about the high cost of oil and natural gas, and the reports of low supplies= =20 of energy in states across the country, continue to scare energy end-users= =20 and may be spurring a renewed interest in distributed generation options. Here's how fuel cells work. They use an electrochemical reaction, as oppose= d=20 to traditional combustion, to generate electricity. In other words, fuel=20 cells allow hydrogen-rich fuels to react chemically with air, without=20 burning,=20 producing as a byproduct DC electricity, water and heat. In addition, fuel= =20 cells dramatically lower the level of pollutants that are emitted into=20 the environment. Test models of fuel cells presently convert methanol,=20 gasoline and natural gas to produce hydrogen fuel. It's easiest to think=20 of a fuel cell as a battery, but one that does not run down or need=20 recharging=20 (although it will need replacing about every five years). A fuel cell will= =20 produce energy in the form of DC electricity and heat as long as fuel is=20 supplied. As an added advantage, fuel cells can be controlled remotely=20 by computer and run rather quietly. This is perhaps the primary incentive= =20 for end-users that would be interested in fuel cell technology. Especially= =20 for facilities like hospitals, the attributes of low noise and near-zero=20 pollution are very appealing. Currently, fuel cells are being tested and developed by laboratories and=20 think tanks around the world, hoping to make this low-polluting form of=20 generation available for widespread use by 2002 or 2003. Under the DOE=20 grant, money provided for stationary fuel cells will fund research and=20 development to reduce costs and improve performance. It is hoped that this= =20 will lead to market-ready fuel cell power systems within three years. In=20 addition, the funding allocates $41.5 million to transportation fuel cell= =20 research such as integrating fuel cell stacks with fuel processors and=20 balance-of-plant technologies for testing. This program also will examine= =20 the technology barriers to fuel-flexible systems for automobile application= s.=20 The $5.5 million reserved for buildings will go toward developing a prototy= pe=20 fuel processor, completing the design competition for a 50kW co-generator= =20 for buildings, and other research and development. Deregulation has cast light on alternative forms of power supply. As=20 customers=20 possibly decide to use on-site generation as opposed to power delivered=20 across a transmission grid, this dramatically alters the traditional busine= ss=20 of most energy companies. Large commercial and industrial customers that=20 suddenly opt for fuel cell solutions to their energy needs would have=20 dramatic=20 financial impact on their incumbent energy provider. As a result, many=20 electric utilities and energy providers are investing in fuel cells as=20 a hedge against a possible shrinkage within their own supply businesses.=20 Southern Company is a good example. Just this month, Southern joined Alabam= a=20 Municipal Electric Authority, Mercedes-Benz U.S. International, Inc., and= =20 FuelCell Energy in a partnership to ""drive a growing interest in fuel cell= =20 technology."" Specifically, Southern is providing funding for a fuel cell=20 plant to be located in the service territory of Alabama Power, a Southern= =20 subsidiary. The plant will convert pipeline natural gas into electricity=20 at a reported efficiency of about 50 percent, compared with 33 percent=20 for conventional generation, which will feed the power distribution system= =20 of Mercedes-Benz. Another example is Enron, which just two weeks ago entered into an alliance= =20 with FuelCell Energy, Inc., to develop and market FuelCell Energy's Direct= =20 FuelCell products, focusing on state renewable and energy conservation=20 programs. As part of the partnership, Enron is investing about $5 million= =20 in the common stock of FuelCell Energy. In its announcement of the=20 partnership,=20 Enron stated that ""the transaction enables us to reach the developing marke= ts=20 for clean energy and renewable energy, which may be served through=20 distributed=20 
Thanks for the update.  I want to make sure we present the numbers in a mor= e=20 coherent fashion than just laying out the individual RCs.  You and I have= =20 discussed this before; my recollection is that we were going to break out a= s=20 follows: Administrative services Aviation building services new building ongoing government affairs Americas Europe-Asia Other budgets retained at business unit level (explanation of shift in expenses from advocacy to transaction support/risk= =20 management PR/Communications Brand advertising internal comm other PR I may be forgetting some of the subgroups we talked about, but this is the= =20 general idea. Elizabeth Linnell Sent by: Elizabeth Linnell 10/18/2000 11:00 AM =20 
I wanted to update you on my conversation this morning with Mark Lindsay=20 regarding next week=01,s budget meeting. The format will be similar to last year=01,s.  We=01,ll be receiving from M= ark=01,s=20 group a consolidated spreadsheet of all of our budgets, grouping them by=20 functionality and illustrating 2000 plan, 2000 estimate, and 2001 plan, and= =20 the variances between.  We will be covering the EPSC and Aviation budgets= =20 during the same meeting.  Billie and I will get together on Friday to compa= re=20 what the two of us have so far, and then we have a meeting set up for Monda= y=20 morning with you, Bill, Billie and me to go over everything in advance of= =20 Tuesday=01,s meeting. Points that Mark made (no surprises here): -  Jeff has mentioned that he wants to see reductions in all corporate cost= =20 centers since our international activities look like they=01,re going away.= (We=20 have made significant reductions year to year on our international gov=01,t= =20 affairs and PR budgets, and I think we can justify that the other cost=20 centers are primarily focused on domestic activities while the individual= =20 business units budget much of those activities themselves.) -  Even though we=01,re allocating more overall to the business units this = year,=20 Jeff will be interested in the gross budget numbers, before any allocations= . -  We need to be able to explain any significant budget changes year to yea= r -  Mark particularly emphasized the increase in the PR budget, most of whi= ch=20 is retained at Corp anyway -  We need to be able to explain anything that we=01,ve inherited from the= =20 business units that is now staying at Corp.  This  applies to the headcount= =20 that we=01,ve picked up from ENA and from Int=01,l (Dennis=01, group). =20 Lindsay mentioned that there=01,s a possibility that Causey may, in advance= of=20 our Tuesday meeting, meet by himself with Skilling to get a general idea of= =20 where Jeff stands on the corporate budgets as they=01,ve been submitted so = far,=20 and then come back to us with instructions on any changes that need to be= =20 made.  If this is the case, we may have to make cuts before we get to prese= nt=20 our case. I'm working on our presentation based on that conversation and will forward= =20 it to you as it progresses. 
Do you prefer Nov. 29 or Dec. 4 in DC? 
Oct. 18, 2000, 9:11PM Briefs: City and state Enron strategy officer named vice chairman Enron Corp. said Wednesday that J. Clifford Baxter, its chief strategy officer since June, has been promoted to vice chairman. Baxter is a key member of the team that built Enron's successful wholesale energy business, said Chairman and CEO Kenneth Lay. The promotion will help enhance that business. Baxter joined Enron in 1991. He was chairman and chief executive officer of Enron North America before being named chief strategy officer, a position that he keeps. Enron already has one vice chairman, Joseph Sutton, whose focus is operations. Oct. 18, 2000, 11:25PM Houston Chronicle Businesses feel strains of political 'shakedown' By KAREN MASTERSON Copyright 2000 Houston Chronicle Washington Bureau WASHINGTON -- Business executives are being tapped for record amounts of money to support political campaigns and are tired of what one calls the ""shakedown"" by candidates and their parties, according to two studies released Wednesday. Nearly $256 million has been raised in so-called soft money -- unlimited contributions from corporations, unions and wealthy individuals to political action committees. That figure is five times the amount of soft money raised in the presidential election year of 1992, according to the Federal Election Commission. A poll of businesses released Wednesday shows that the pressure put on corporate executives to make large contributions is creating a backlash that could lead to reform next year in Congress. The study reveals that 75 percent of corporate heads feel pressure to give; half said they fear repercussions if they turn down requests for money; and, consequently, 60 percent support a ban on soft money. Overall contributions -- for spending on both campaigns and issue ads -- have surpassed those made during the 1996 campaigns for president, the House and the Senate by $430 million. This election cycle's total, now at $1.6 billion, reflects contributions made in the 18 months leading up to June 30. Those against the influence of money on politics worry most that much more is to come. Their estimates put total campaign contributions up to $3 billion -- more than the total budget of many small countries -- once the remaining months of this year are accounted for. ""Even before this election season began, we knew that the 2000 election was going to be one for the record books,"" said Larry Makinson, executive director of Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that watches campaign contributions and their influence on policy. A lot is at stake this year, including the White House and control of the House, where Republicans hold a narrow majority. Democrats also hope to recover at least a few seats in the Senate. The center's analysis of FEC records shows that the computer industry leaped from a rank of 55 in campaign giving in 1990 to eighth place this year, providing $25 million in nearly equal amounts to Democrats and Republicans. ""By splitting their money, the industry has gotten just about everything it's asked for from Congress,"" Makinson said. Among those requests are a moratorium on an Internet sales tax and an increase in immigration visas for high-tech job applicants. Efforts to ban soft money have been made on Capitol Hill, but have gone nowhere. And the two presidential candidates who made a soft-money ban central to their campaigns -- Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and former Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J. -- lost their primary election bids. Advocates of a total ban hope the business survey means executives are ready to act against the status quo. ""I remember $5,000 and $10,000 contributions in soft money,"" said Harry Freeman, a former executive vice president of American Express Co., a position he held until 1990. Now he said executives are asked for $100,000 and $200,000. And some executives see the practice as anti-competitive, Freeman said, because significant resources are going into political campaigns instead of being reinvested in a company's ability to compete in the marketplace. ""Some are fascinated by politicians and think it's a big ideological thing to contribute. But the poll shows most people see it as a shakedown,"" said Freeman, who is currently a trustee of the Committee for Economic Development, a pro-business public policy institute that favors campaign finance overhaul and is supported by officials at Hasbro, Genesco, PP&L Inc. and other companies. The center commissioned the business survey, which included a random sample of 300 corporate executives. Soft money allows politicians and political committees to ask for huge sums of money, way beyond the limits placed on so-called hard money, which is capped and controlled by the Federal Election Commission. Because of soft money, ""the message to donors is forget the limits,"" Makinson said Wednesday at a Center for Responsive Politics news conference. He said the ballooning of campaign contributions is backed by a recent federal court order that found the FEC limits on issue-ad spending were applicable if the advertisement blatantly promoted one candidate and included 
Please schedule for Monday 
Jo Ann, Please set up a meeting with Steve Kean to discuss expertfinder asap on Thursday. Thanks. 
From Joe Sutton: Please review the attached draft memo that we would like to send out from the Office of the Chairman.  Joe would like to send this out today. If you have any questions or concerns, please let me know as soon as possible. Thanks 
The date for the Aviation pre-ranking meeting has been changed from Wednesday, November 29th to Tuesday, November 28th at 4:00 pm.  Location in the Enron bldg. to be determined prior to that date. This meeting will be used to determine the pre-rating of the Aviation employees prior to the EPSC/Building Services & Aviation PRC on Thursday, November 30th. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact me on ext. 36023. Regards, Michelle 
calendar 
You might mark your calendar for a lunch (12-1:30) at the Hyatt downtown on Wednesday December 13 where Barton Smith of UH and George Tolley of the U. of Chicago will present the findings of their economic study.  The Houston Forum event will be part of the Kenneth L. Lay Lecture Series in Global Economics at the University of Houston.  (I will have a table for Enron.) The authors presented their preliminary results to us this week, and the total benefits of the planned ozone reduction (all SIP measures as currently proposed) are below $100 million (we are indoors most of the time that bad air days are occurring since it is typically very hot), and the costs are around $5 billion out to 2010.   Lots of caveats to this conclusion including the assumption of today's best technology but no more.  The high costs include a ""last mile"" problem that the proposal of the Partnership's Business Coalition for Clean Air (BCCA) avoids (such as no noon-to-midnight construction, a 75% average point source reduction to allow for trading and future permits instead of a 90% reduction, etc.). The effect on Houston is to reduce our forecast economic growth but not eliminate it.  Real wages are forecast to fall by some 5% or more under the current SIP versus without it.  Total job loss will be over 100,000--about a 1 and a half years of growth out to 2010.   This ""shock"" will be around one-half of what Houston went through after the oil price crash in 1986 according to Dr. Smith.  One might say that slower growth and spreading the pollution around (some of our refinery/petrochemical growth going elsewhere) is not the end of the world, however, if a more cost-effective SIP is chosen. It will be several weeks before the results are final (and the election over), at which time an executive summary will be released.  The Mayor's office and TNRCC will be briefed first.  The luncheon will be the formal unveiling of the study with explanation, but I expect press coverage of the study next month. As head of the economics working group, I have tried to ensure that a top-notch analysis was done without an industry bias.  The results are considered conservative by the authors all things considered and in line with the peer-reviewed literature on costs and benefits.  The study is not intended to be a ""whining"" study but to give us realistic expectations and to (naturally) bring into review some ""last mile"" problems where certain SIP measures are the least cost effective. These preliminary results are confidential given the political cycle we are in and should not be shared externally. 
I talked to Ken Lay and he will support Carol as VP.  I have talked to Carol and she knows the process.  We are going to take her up at the next Excom meeting.  I don't think there is anything you need to do right now. John Sherriff@ECT 10/18/2000 04:31 AM 
Steve Any progress on determining how Carol would be accepted as a VP by the Executive Committee?    I have not been able to talk to her and am worried she might feel neglected. John 
Look at the last article .... any idea what the ""rude awakening"" might be? 
Business/Financial Desk; Section C Study Finds That Many Large Companies Pay No Taxes By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON ? 10/20/2000 The New York Times Page 2, Column 1 c. 2000 New York Times Company Goodyear, Texaco, Colgate-Palmolive, MCI WorldCom and eight other large corporations earned more than $12.2 billion in profits in 1996 through 1998, but none of them ended up owing corporate income taxes over that period, according to a study released yesterday. Indeed, as a group, the companies received $535 million in credits or refunds, the report found. The study of 250 large publicly traded companies showed that 24 owed no tax or received credits against past or future tax obligations in 1998, up from 13 in 1997 and 16 in 1996. The study also found that 71 of the 250 companies paid taxes at less than half the official 35 percent corporate rate during the three-year period. The study was conducted by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a Washington research organization associated with Citizens for Tax Justice, a nonprofit group supported in part by labor unions. The group argues that the tax system favors the rich and politically connected. Corporate profits overall soared 23.5 percent during the three-year period, but corporate tax revenues grew just 7.7 percent, a disjunction that has drawn intense interest from the Treasury Department and some members of Congress who are concerned about the growing market for tax shelters and their abuse. In recent years, Congress has watered down the 1986 overhaul of the tax laws, which lowered rates and eliminated most tax shelters, and was supposed to simplify reporting. The recent changes have opened fresh opportunities for corporations to cut their taxes, the study found. ''Corporate taxes are not rising along with profits because companies have found all sorts of ways to get around the reforms in the 1986 tax act,'' said Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice. ''Companies also have gotten a lot of help from Congress, especially in gutting the minimum tax rules.'' Mr. McIntyre said that he and T. D. Coo Nguyen, the co-author, spent more than two years examining financial statements the companies sent to shareholders. All but 18 of the companies studied are on the Fortune 500 list, and the others are in the Fortune 1000. He said companies were excluded if they lost money or their tax disclosures ''were crafted so that you could not figure them out.'' At least two companies objected to the study's methodology. Keith Price, a spokesman for Goodyear, said the study did not appear to consider an accounting rule affecting its sale of a pipeline subsidiary in 1998. It made no objection to the 1996 and 1997 figures. Michael N. Ambler, Texaco's chief tax counsel, said that his company had tax disputes with the Internal Revenue Service that were unresolved after more than a decade. If those disputes are settled with a refund, he said, that can easily distort the figures for any one year. He said that even the three-year study period was too short to give an accurate picture. Timothy McCormally of the Tax Executives Institute, which represents officials at large companies, told Bloomberg News that the companies named in the report did nothing wrong. ''There is nothing in the report that suggests that any of this results from any illegal or improper activity,'' he said. The study by the Washington institute showed that the corporate tax burden was falling in many cases because of the growing use of stock options, which are an expense for tax purposes but do not count against profits reported to shareholders. Recent annual reports filed by Microsoft and Cisco Systems indicate that they paid no federal income taxes in 1999 because stock options exercised by employees wiped out profits for tax purposes. The study found that General Electric, I.B.M., Pfizer, Intel and Bristol-Myers Squibb also sharply reduced their tax rates because of stock options without having to show reduced earnings to shareholders. The most significant factor in the easing corporate tax burden, Mr. McIntyre said, can be traced to actions in Congress, which relaxed the corporate minimum tax in 1993 when the Democrats were in control of both the House and Senate, and again in 1997, after the Republicans had taken over. Congress made it easier for corporations to spread tax breaks and profits over many years, including reaching back to past years to get tax breaks that could not be used at the time. In at least one of the three years studied, 41 of the 250 large companies studied paid no federal income tax. Those 41 companies reported $25.8 billion in profits to shareholders in the years they paid no taxes. If they had been obligated to pay the full 35 percent corporate rate, the tax bill would have been $9 billion, but the companies received $3.2 billion in refunds. In total dollars, General Electric was the biggest beneficiary of tax breaks, the study said, saving $6.9 billion in three years. The company paid $2.1 billion in income taxes on $25.8 billion in profits, for a tax rate of 8.1 percent. The highest tax rate for the three years was paid by Winn-Dixie Stores, which paid an average of 35.7 percent of its 1996 through 1998 profits in federal income taxes. It was one of two companies that paid more than the 35 percent statutory rate because of multiyear tax rules. The other was Paccar. Chart: ''Profits Without Pain'' In a study of 250 large and profitable companies, these 17 paid the least in corporate taxes -- or got the biggest refunds -- as a percentage of profits from 1996 to 1998. Goodyear 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: $657 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: -$ 65 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -9.9 Texaco 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 3,447 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 304 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -8.8 Ryder 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 489 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 30 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -6.2 El Paso Energy 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 818 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 36 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -4.4 MedPartners 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 184 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 4 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -2.1 Tenneco 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 731 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 14 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.9 Colgate-Palmolive 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 777 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 14 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.7 MCI WorldCom 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 3,578 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 61 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.7 Corporate Express* 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 214 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 4 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.6 WestPoint Stevens 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 339 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 3 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -0.7 Kmart 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 978 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 2 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -0.2 Enron 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 816 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 2 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +0.2 Transamerica 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 2,199 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 5 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +0.2 Suiza Foods 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 295 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 2 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +0.8 Navistar 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 742 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 13 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +1.8 McKesson 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 473 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 10 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +2.1 Pfizer 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 3,367 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 104 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +3.1 *Purchased by Buhrmann in October 1999. (Source: Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy) Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Business; Financial Desk Legal Breaks Lower Some Corporate Tax Rates ? 10/20/2000 Los Angeles Times Home Edition Page C-3 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company WASHINGTON -- Dozens of America's most profitable companies enjoyed tax-free years during the 1990s largely because of legal tax breaks, an independent study released Thursday found. The report by the nonprofit Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy found that 250 companies paid an effective tax rate of 20.1% in 1998, down from 22.9% just two years before. The federal income tax rate for corporations is supposed to be 35%. Of the 250 companies studied, 41 enjoyed at least one year of no income taxes or an actual rebate from the federal government, despite pretax profits of $25.8 billion from 1996 to 1998. If all 250 companies had paid the full 35% on $735 billion in pretax profits, the study estimated the total income tax would have come to $257 billion. But tax breaks put into law by Congress lowered those companies' tax bills by $98 billion over the three-year period. Companies getting tax rebates in 1998 alone included Texaco Inc., Chevron Corp., PepsiCo Inc., J.P. Morgan & Co., Enron Corp. and General Motors Corp., the report found. The study's chief author, Robert S. McIntyre, said companies lower their taxes through such breaks as depreciation write-offs, tax credits for research and development and deductions they take when employees exercise stock options. The report also found that the petroleum industry paid the lowest tax rate from 1996 to 1998, at 12.3%, followed by electronics at 13.1%, forest and paper products at 13.9% and transportation at 14%. At the other end of the spectrum, publishing and printing companies paid 31.6%, gas and electric utilities paid 28.1% and retail and wholesale trade companies paid 27.6%. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Oct. 19, 2000, 10:23PM Houston Chronicle Arena boosters tout 3 benefits Some question property/sales tax numbers, new development By ERIC BERGER Copyright 2000 Houston Chronicle Enron Field sparked the redevelopment of downtown's east side, boosters say, and an arena would crown the revitalization of the long-neglected area. A strongly pro-arena business organization, Central Houston Inc., released a flurry of positive economic numbers to back its contention that Enron Field is a boon to downtown as well as to city, county and school tax coffers, and that the arena would be as well. ""There's no better way to measure the impact of sports facilities on downtown than to look at the one we already have,"" said the organization's president, Bob Eury, as he crooked a finger toward the ballpark. Eury and other boosters outlined three economic benefits to Houston they say are related to sports facilities: increased property tax revenues, a wealth of new development in the area and a boost in sales tax collected. But economic analysts questioned some of their conclusions. When Enron Field was built, nine blocks were taken off the tax rolls at a cost of about $284,000 in lost property taxes. Eury said, though, that it was not a bad trade. He noted that properties around the ballpark have leaped in value since the Enron Field project began in the mid-1990s. In turn, the annual property tax collected on land and buildings within four blocks of the ballpark is $2.4 million greater now than in 1995. But Harris County Tax Assessor-Collector Paul Bettencourt said those figures are due in part to the boom in land values across downtown, including the central business district, since 1995. Bettencourt said he hoped to have an analysis finished today to determine whether land values around Enron Field had increased at a greater rate than land in the rest of downtown. The boosters also highlighted more than $700 million worth of private developments planned -- but not yet completed -- near the ballpark, including the $90 million, 37-story Ballpark Place Tower across Crawford Street from Enron Field. ""Without a doubt, if Enron Field was not there, Ballpark Place would not be there,"" said John Holland, an executive vice president for the Trammel Crow Co., which expects to break ground on the project in early 2001. Because the arena would be built in an urban core, even academics who are skeptical about the economic benefits of sports stadiums agreed that spin-off development is likely nearby. But independent economists who have studied such issues, including Brad Humphreys, an assistant professor at the University of Maryland-Baltimore County, say development near a stadium usually has a negative impact on development and businesses in other parts of a city. The focus must be on the entire market, Humphreys said, not just in the vicinity of a sports facility. 
See Dow Jones newswire story at the end 
Look at the last article .... any idea what the ""rude awakening"" might be? 
Business/Financial Desk; Section C Study Finds That Many Large Companies Pay No Taxes By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON ? 10/20/2000 The New York Times Page 2, Column 1 c. 2000 New York Times Company Goodyear, Texaco, Colgate-Palmolive, MCI WorldCom and eight other large corporations earned more than $12.2 billion in profits in 1996 through 1998, but none of them ended up owing corporate income taxes over that period, according to a study released yesterday. Indeed, as a group, the companies received $535 million in credits or refunds, the report found. The study of 250 large publicly traded companies showed that 24 owed no tax or received credits against past or future tax obligations in 1998, up from 13 in 1997 and 16 in 1996. The study also found that 71 of the 250 companies paid taxes at less than half the official 35 percent corporate rate during the three-year period. The study was conducted by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a Washington research organization associated with Citizens for Tax Justice, a nonprofit group supported in part by labor unions. The group argues that the tax system favors the rich and politically connected. Corporate profits overall soared 23.5 percent during the three-year period, but corporate tax revenues grew just 7.7 percent, a disjunction that has drawn intense interest from the Treasury Department and some members of Congress who are concerned about the growing market for tax shelters and their abuse. In recent years, Congress has watered down the 1986 overhaul of the tax laws, which lowered rates and eliminated most tax shelters, and was supposed to simplify reporting. The recent changes have opened fresh opportunities for corporations to cut their taxes, the study found. ''Corporate taxes are not rising along with profits because companies have found all sorts of ways to get around the reforms in the 1986 tax act,'' said Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice. ''Companies also have gotten a lot of help from Congress, especially in gutting the minimum tax rules.'' Mr. McIntyre said that he and T. D. Coo Nguyen, the co-author, spent more than two years examining financial statements the companies sent to shareholders. All but 18 of the companies studied are on the Fortune 500 list, and the others are in the Fortune 1000. He said companies were excluded if they lost money or their tax disclosures ''were crafted so that you could not figure them out.'' At least two companies objected to the study's methodology. Keith Price, a spokesman for Goodyear, said the study did not appear to consider an accounting rule affecting its sale of a pipeline subsidiary in 1998. It made no objection to the 1996 and 1997 figures. Michael N. Ambler, Texaco's chief tax counsel, said that his company had tax disputes with the Internal Revenue Service that were unresolved after more than a decade. If those disputes are settled with a refund, he said, that can easily distort the figures for any one year. He said that even the three-year study period was too short to give an accurate picture. Timothy McCormally of the Tax Executives Institute, which represents officials at large companies, told Bloomberg News that the companies named in the report did nothing wrong. ''There is nothing in the report that suggests that any of this results from any illegal or improper activity,'' he said. The study by the Washington institute showed that the corporate tax burden was falling in many cases because of the growing use of stock options, which are an expense for tax purposes but do not count against profits reported to shareholders. Recent annual reports filed by Microsoft and Cisco Systems indicate that they paid no federal income taxes in 1999 because stock options exercised by employees wiped out profits for tax purposes. The study found that General Electric, I.B.M., Pfizer, Intel and Bristol-Myers Squibb also sharply reduced their tax rates because of stock options without having to show reduced earnings to shareholders. The most significant factor in the easing corporate tax burden, Mr. McIntyre said, can be traced to actions in Congress, which relaxed the corporate minimum tax in 1993 when the Democrats were in control of both the House and Senate, and again in 1997, after the Republicans had taken over. Congress made it easier for corporations to spread tax breaks and profits over many years, including reaching back to past years to get tax breaks that could not be used at the time. In at least one of the three years studied, 41 of the 250 large companies studied paid no federal income tax. Those 41 companies reported $25.8 billion in profits to shareholders in the years they paid no taxes. If they had been obligated to pay the full 35 percent corporate rate, the tax bill would have been $9 billion, but the companies received $3.2 billion in refunds. In total dollars, General Electric was the biggest beneficiary of tax breaks, the study said, saving $6.9 billion in three years. The company paid $2.1 billion in income taxes on $25.8 billion in profits, for a tax rate of 8.1 percent. The highest tax rate for the three years was paid by Winn-Dixie Stores, which paid an average of 35.7 percent of its 1996 through 1998 profits in federal income taxes. It was one of two companies that paid more than the 35 percent statutory rate because of multiyear tax rules. The other was Paccar. Chart: ''Profits Without Pain'' In a study of 250 large and profitable companies, these 17 paid the least in corporate taxes -- or got the biggest refunds -- as a percentage of profits from 1996 to 1998. Goodyear 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: $657 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: -$ 65 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -9.9 Texaco 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 3,447 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 304 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -8.8 Ryder 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 489 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 30 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -6.2 El Paso Energy 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 818 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 36 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -4.4 MedPartners 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 184 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 4 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -2.1 Tenneco 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 731 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 14 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.9 Colgate-Palmolive 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 777 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 14 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.7 MCI WorldCom 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 3,578 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 61 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.7 Corporate Express* 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 214 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 4 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -1.6 WestPoint Stevens 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 339 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 3 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -0.7 Kmart 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 978 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: - 2 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: -0.2 Enron 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 816 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 2 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +0.2 Transamerica 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 2,199 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 5 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +0.2 Suiza Foods 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 295 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 2 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +0.8 Navistar 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 742 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 13 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +1.8 McKesson 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 473 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 10 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +2.1 Pfizer 1996-98 PROFITS, IN MILLIONS: 3,367 TOTAL TAX REFUNDED OR PAID, 1996-98, IN MILLIONS: + 104 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: +3.1 *Purchased by Buhrmann in October 1999. (Source: Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy) Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Business; Financial Desk Legal Breaks Lower Some Corporate Tax Rates ? 10/20/2000 Los Angeles Times Home Edition Page C-3 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company WASHINGTON -- Dozens of America's most profitable companies enjoyed tax-free years during the 1990s largely because of legal tax breaks, an independent study released Thursday found. The report by the nonprofit Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy found that 250 companies paid an effective tax rate of 20.1% in 1998, down from 22.9% just two years before. The federal income tax rate for corporations is supposed to be 35%. Of the 250 companies studied, 41 enjoyed at least one year of no income taxes or an actual rebate from the federal government, despite pretax profits of $25.8 billion from 1996 to 1998. If all 250 companies had paid the full 35% on $735 billion in pretax profits, the study estimated the total income tax would have come to $257 billion. But tax breaks put into law by Congress lowered those companies' tax bills by $98 billion over the three-year period. Companies getting tax rebates in 1998 alone included Texaco Inc., Chevron Corp., PepsiCo Inc., J.P. Morgan & Co., Enron Corp. and General Motors Corp., the report found. The study's chief author, Robert S. McIntyre, said companies lower their taxes through such breaks as depreciation write-offs, tax credits for research and development and deductions they take when employees exercise stock options. The report also found that the petroleum industry paid the lowest tax rate from 1996 to 1998, at 12.3%, followed by electronics at 13.1%, forest and paper products at 13.9% and transportation at 14%. At the other end of the spectrum, publishing and printing companies paid 31.6%, gas and electric utilities paid 28.1% and retail and wholesale trade companies paid 27.6%. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Oct. 19, 2000, 10:23PM Houston Chronicle Arena boosters tout 3 benefits Some question property/sales tax numbers, new development By ERIC BERGER Copyright 2000 Houston Chronicle Enron Field sparked the redevelopment of downtown's east side, boosters say, and an arena would crown the revitalization of the long-neglected area. A strongly pro-arena business organization, Central Houston Inc., released a flurry of positive economic numbers to back its contention that Enron Field is a boon to downtown as well as to city, county and school tax coffers, and that the arena would be as well. ""There's no better way to measure the impact of sports facilities on downtown than to look at the one we already have,"" said the organization's president, Bob Eury, as he crooked a finger toward the ballpark. Eury and other boosters outlined three economic benefits to Houston they say are related to sports facilities: increased property tax revenues, a wealth of new development in the area and a boost in sales tax collected. But economic analysts questioned some of their conclusions. When Enron Field was built, nine blocks were taken off the tax rolls at a cost of about $284,000 in lost property taxes. Eury said, though, that it was not a bad trade. He noted that properties around the ballpark have leaped in value since the Enron Field project began in the mid-1990s. In turn, the annual property tax collected on land and buildings within four blocks of the ballpark is $2.4 million greater now than in 1995. But Harris County Tax Assessor-Collector Paul Bettencourt said those figures are due in part to the boom in land values across downtown, including the central business district, since 1995. Bettencourt said he hoped to have an analysis finished today to determine whether land values around Enron Field had increased at a greater rate than land in the rest of downtown. The boosters also highlighted more than $700 million worth of private developments planned -- but not yet completed -- near the ballpark, including the $90 million, 37-story Ballpark Place Tower across Crawford Street from Enron Field. ""Without a doubt, if Enron Field was not there, Ballpark Place would not be there,"" said John Holland, an executive vice president for the Trammel Crow Co., which expects to break ground on the project in early 2001. Because the arena would be built in an urban core, even academics who are skeptical about the economic benefits of sports stadiums agreed that spin-off development is likely nearby. But independent economists who have studied such issues, including Brad Humphreys, an assistant professor at the University of Maryland-Baltimore County, say development near a stadium usually has a negative impact on development and businesses in other parts of a city. The focus must be on the entire market, Humphreys said, not just in the vicinity of a sports facility. 
Please see attached. 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline 
in Energy Restructuring: Early Registration Deadline DOE and NARUC are hosting the North American Summit on Harmonizing Business Practices in Energy Restructuring on November 29 to December 1 in Dallas. More information is available at http://www.energymarkets.org. Just a quick note to remind you that the early registration discount deadline is Friday, October 27.  To register, go to http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/NA_Summit/registration.htm. Please forward this email to colleagues who may be interested in this event. 
Can we be even stronger on this?  The short answer is that Joe's resignatio= n=20 has no impact on our view toward India.  The evaluation of our asset holdin= gs=20 and new business opportunities is the same the day after Joe's resignation = as=20 it was the day before.  If need be, we can reiterate previous statements=20 about our ongoing review of asset positions.  What do you think? John Ambler@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 10/24/2000 06:46 PM =20 
We expect considerable Indian media interest and attempts to interpret the= =20 implications of Joe Sutton's resignation.  In consultation with Mark Palmer= =20 and others, we have developed the following statement, which we intend to u= se=20 only in response to media inquiries.  Please let me know if you have any=20 comments. John For Enron Use =01) Only if Asked October 24, 2000 Statement on Impact of Sutton Resignation on Enron in India Joe Sutton=01,s departure should not significantly affect Enron=01,s commit= ment to=20 the Indian market.  In fact, consistent with Enron=01,s new business lines,= we=20 are in the process of developing data centers and a fiber optic network in= =20 India.  Of course, we continuously look to optimize the value of our busine= ss=20 interests and there may be some related adjustments in our holdings, but we= =20 expect to continue as a significant participant in the Indian market. If pressed: We are not able to comment on specific plans or operations, as it is our=20 policy not to comment on the details of potential divestitures or=20 acquisitions. 
BURNS 703-741-5900 IN NAPLES FLORIDA, WANT TO GET THEM MORE ACTIVE, THEY'VE ALREADY JOINED US, HAPHAZARD IN THEIR SUPPORT, DINNER ON THE 14, ASKED FOR SKILLING, CAN'T DO IT. 
Want you to speak from 10:15 - 11:00 ** Will be sending a letter this week (3/19/97) 
FYI.  Jane is doing a great job supporting the Reg Risk efforts. JDS 
Just had a preview meeting with Wade Cline and Neil McGregor (Pres. of DPC). They are very supportive of the effort and felt that, while ""Jane, you always bring us such good news!"" that the depth of analysis and real time concerns articulated was an excellent thing for the company.  In fact, they wanted a few more mitigants put in and then shot down, anticipating Jeff Skilling-type questions.  Thus, this regulatory risk idea if done in depth for each region/project, may be a bigger service for Enron than you guys had ever anticipated.  They also thought of one more tack to take on the renegotiation issue to figure out how far we could go.  Good deal.  (However, will still wear body armor/butt plate into the Sanjay meeting next Wednesday). 
Thank you for staying so on top of this, Jane.  I really appreciate it. John Jane Wilson 06/01/2000 06:19 PM 
They're working on the numbers, but it will be ugly. 
Thanks, Nick.  I am anxious to get out there soon.  In the meantime I'll send a tape of my singing voice. Nicholas O'Day 10/26/2000 06:04 PM 
Steve, hopefully we can lure you out to Tokyo soon, perhaps when there is less of a crowd. (I can't help but think that the reason that you are not coming is to avoid singing that little piece from Puccini's Madam Butterfly at the office opening.) kind regards Sent by: Maureen McVicker 
Nick: I was wondering if it would be a big problem if I end up not being able to attend the grand opening.  I really want to attend, but I am having some scheduling problems. Please let me know if my missing the event would create any problems.  (I know I'm important, but I'm sure it would be ok for me to miss.) Steve 
September 30, 2000 
September 30, 2000 Ladies and Gentlemen: Set forth below for your information and review are the expenditures with Minority/Women Owned Business Enterprises through September 30, 2000. Should you have any questions, please contact me at x69500. Calvin Eakins Director, Minority & Women Business Development Enron Global Strategic Sourcing calvin.eakins@enron.com 713/646-9500 
Apparently I spoke too soon.  Fourteen ideas were deposited into the ThinkBank today -- including entries from Frankfurt, Toronto, London and Pleasanton, California.  All levels of employees have participated from assistant to senior director. 
Well, it seems that eThink has another hit.  Twelve people have already put well-conceived business ideas into the ThinkBank and we have received numerous congratulatory calls.  I won't have site hits until next week, but the active participation has been the highest of all our current applications on their respective launch day. Have a great weekend, Sarah. 
http://www.consultrci.com ************************************************************************=20 Search SCIENTECH's PowerHitter archive to read about our interview with=20 a leader in the industy: http://www.consultrci.com/web/infostore.nsf/Products/PowerHitter ************************************************************************ =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D SCIENTECH IssueAlert, October 27, 2000 Toronto Hydro, Ontario Power Generation Launch EBT Express By: Will McNamara, Director, Electric Industry Analysis =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D= =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D Toronto Hydro Corporation and Ontario Power Generation announced that they= =20 have launched an electronic business transaction (EBT) ""hub"" that will=20 provide centralized electronic data management and transaction services=20 to local distribution companies (LDCs) and energy retailers in Ontario.=20 Called EBT Express, the exchange will become operational when Ontario's=20 new competitive electricity market opens next spring. Excelergy eXACT=01v,= =20 developed by energy software solutions company Excelergy Corporation, will= =20 provide the technology infrastructure for EBT Express. ANALYSIS: This is a significant development, as EBT Express represents=20 the first hub in Canada for retail energy transactions. The site will serve= =20 as the central clearinghouse for immediate communication of customer data= =20 among hundreds of LDCs and energy retailers in Ontario, and possibly=20 throughout=20 Canada.  I spoke yesterday afternoon with George Caraghiaur, Exelergy's=20 vice president, Canada, about EBT Express. Caraghiaur believes that the=20 site ""will provide the essential technology for opening Ontario's electrici= ty=20 market in an efficient manner."" That is no small undertaking as there are= =20 an expected 300 players that will need to communicate with each other in=20 Ontario once competition begins. Deregulation is happening in Canada on a province-by-province basis (much= =20 like it is happening state-by-state in the U.S.). Thus far, only Ontario=20 and Alberta have set dates when electric customers will be able to select= =20 a new energy supplier. Ontario is scheduled to become competitive next=20 spring, and presently is the only region in which EBT Express will be=20 operational.=20 Alberta uses a point-to-point transaction process, which represents a very= =20 complex model. Caraghiaur believes that the value of EBT Express will be=20 clearly seen, and there will be many opportunities for the hub in Alberta= =20 and elsewhere. The Ontario Energy Board (OEB), which is the equivalent of a state PUC,=20 mandated the use of electronic business transactions (EBTs). The EBTs work= =20 as follows: Once a customer selects a new energy supplier, the energy=20 supplier=20 and the local distribution company (LDC) must continue to share information= =20 about that customer. This proprietary data, shared strictly on a one-to-one= =20 basis between the energy supplier and the LDC only, will include billing,= =20 usage and payment information. Essentially, an LDC will read the meter=20 and send usage information to the energy supplier, who will calculate its= =20 portion of a customer's bill and in turn send this data back to the LDC,=20 which will submit the customer bill. This represents a common way for billi= ng=20 in Ontario, although there are other options including consolidated billing= =20 that originates from the energy supplier and split billing coming from=20 both the LDC and energy supplier. No customer information will be exchanged= =20 until competition officially begins in Ontario, which now appears to be=20 in the spring of 2001, although the technology infrastructure supplied=20 by Excelergy is already in place. In response to the OEB's mandate, Toronto Hydro Corp. and Ontario Power=20 Generation=01*the largest players in electricity distribution and generatio= n=20 in Ontario=01* became equity partners in the $7.7 million joint venture to= =20 create EBT Express. All customer data will be contained within EBT Express,= =20 which is supported by the eXACT technology. Excelergy eXACT is a software= =20 solution that translates, validates, manages and delivers data exchanged=20 among users. The functionality of eXACT has been used in several U.S. state= s,=20 including Pennsylvania and New Jersey. In fact, eXACT was introduced to=20 gas and electricity retailers in the United States in 1999 as a component= =20 of Excelergy ABP=01v, a billing and customer information solution. Alleghen= y=20 Energy Supply, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, was one U.S. utility that= =20 I know of that used the Excelergy technology.=20 Caraghiaur contends that EBT Express will play an important role in enhanci= ng=20 the competitive market in Ontario. ""There are presently 37 licensed retaile= rs=20 in Ontario, 15 pending retailers and 246 LDCs,"" Caraghiaur told me. ""You=20 can imagine the cloud of communication pathways that would occur between=20 all these players without a centralized hub such as EBT Express."" The numbe= r=20 of LDCs seemed awfully high to me, but Caraghiaur explained that in Ontario= =20 many LDCs serve only a small number of customers, often 100 customers or=20 less. This should change as consolidation reduces the number of LDCs in=20 Ontario but, when compared to the United States, Ontario still will have=20 a comparatively high number of distribution companies.=20 Caraghiaur cited Pennsylvania as an example of a market that has tried=20 to assimilate communication among many market participants. Pennsylvania,= =20 along with most other U.S. states, still uses electronic data interchange= =20 (EDI) as its standard, wherein every LDC has a slightly different=20 interpretation=20 of data that is shared through the EDI. This can often cause communication= =20 inconsistencies and retailers may have a difficult time in getting ready=20 for deregulation. ""EBT Express will be in the position to enforce standards= ,""=20 says Caraghiaur. ""The use of XML in particular will enhance communication= =20 
Hartsoe: PJM, Hogan,SPP, WSCC,Hebert,democratic nominee, ACA Andy Rotherham AAE membership (703)875-0764 Gordon Weil page Maureen Joe Allen Dave Marquart 
I appreciate you pressing this issue.  You should both be aware that Unocal(?) has been sued by the families of four employees who were shot in Pakistan a couple of years ago.  Their claim is that the company did not provide adequate security and ignored official warnings of trouble in the region. 
Gabriel et al: Looks like the risks to Enron travelers to (and employees in) Colombia have increased.  This is another indication that a 'travel policy' for travelers to Colombia should be in effect.  What happened to the one we were discussing earlier?  The steps outlined there would go a long way in improving the security of our travelers. Control Risks' report discusses responses to the media - be sure you have the approval of Enron's media people before making any response. The report also recommends suspending bidding on new projects - probably not viable advice, but reinforces the importance that additional security measures be built into all new projects from day one. Now that our name is in front of the Colombian public, we could see retaliation for various acts, not all of which we have control over.  Recent US Government actions such as extraditing criminals to the US for trial and training Colombian anti-drug troops have done little to endear American businesses to the Colombian public, who see such actions as interfering with Colombia's right to govern themselves.  These actions have significantly raised the risk of all American companies and their employees in Colombia. A meeting I had about two years ago with David Beddow of Control Risks in Bogota indicated that we could see some changes in the methods of attack in urban areas by FARC/ELN.  With an elevated risk level, we should begin thinking about these threats.  FARC seldom uses the car bomb method of attack because it generates little interest among the domestic or international media.  FARC plans on using letter bombs mailed to select targets, i.e., head of an American-owned corporation who may have an office in Bogota.  This method will generate headlines in the press and generate a fear of FARC among businessmen who may be targets.  Control Risks' reported timetable for this change in FARC's tactics was to be three to five years, but now that our risk is higher, the timetable may well be moved up. On a related note - did you employ the security person we recommended? Please let me know how I can help you. Regards, Mike Hicks Gabriel Sanchez-Sierra@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 12/05/99 08:15 PM 
FYI please find attached the ""Security Assessment Report "" carried out  by Control Risk  . Please let me have your feed back .GSS 
Gabriel, Please find attached Control Risks (Bogota) initial Security/Risk Assessment of the issues/situation we discussed on Friday, November 26th. I've also included our Risk Assessment Matrix that summarizes the issues we've reviewed as part of our analysis. Once you've had the opportunity to review the attached documents we can further address the steps we  discussed at breaKfast concerning Control Risks (Bogota) working more closely with Enron Colombia and our office dedicating on-call resources to suppport you in Colombia. Regards, Mark MD Carlson Deputy General Manager Control Risks Group Bogota, Colombia - Enron.doc - Enron Risk Assessment Matrix.doc 
Thanks for your message. I do think we need to talk this through.  In the meantime, though, let's not make anymore VPs until this is resolved.  As I said in my original message, I am not looking to undo what has been done, but to make sure we don't do it again unless the process is followed. I understand that there are significant title differences across the regions we operate.  In fact, one of the people in my organization who did not make VP is Dennis Vegas, who has done an extraordinary job in Latin America. Notwithstanding his regional focus (and the significance of a VP title in his region) he was put through the company wide process and he, David Haug, and I submit, everyone else on the Exec Comm, understood that every new VP would go through the same process regardless of regional assignment (with the exception of certain joint venture companies). But, I maintain that we need some consistency in the VP title in particular -- i.e. that it remain an Enron-wide title, granted only through the PRC process.  Though I don't personally feel this way, for many people in the organization the VP title means something separate from the compensation structure; it implies something like ""making partner"" in a legal or consulting firm. Making that cut should not vary based on where you live or what region you support. I also understand the point about needing a certain title for external purposes.  In my organization we are dealing with very title-conscious elected officials and media.  I can make the case for every one of my directors and senior directors that they would be more effective externally if they carried a more senior title, regardless of any change in compensation.  As an executive committee, we elected to make such an exception only for ""legacy"" title holders -- i.e. people who had previously made VP outside the process.  Everyone in my organization 
From reading the e-mails on the issue regarding Regional Vice President at Enron India, it sounds like there will be more discussion on this issue. I know that issues like this generally come up at the Enron ExCom level. There are a few issues that need to be kept in mind, and although Cindy and I have discussed these in the past, I have not had an opportunity to pursue them further (but would be happy to help out on this). I have noticed these not only in India but also in the other international settings where I have worked for Enron during the past several years. 1. International job titles and domestic job titles do not correlate. For example, in India, the title ""Director"" implies a very senior person within the organization (well above VP), whereas in the Enron domestic world, it is a position below VP. ""Managing Director"" within Enron is below the most senior levels, but in India a MD is the Ken Lay equivalent. For this reason, I cannot use Managing Director in my title or on my business card, although this is my title for Enron Houston purposes. 2. Job titles are much more important in an international setting than in a domestic setting. For example, in Houston, we have people at the director (and probably manager) level who lead deal teams and bring deals to successful closing. In an international setting, particularly India, to get to the decision-makers in your counterpart organization, an officer title of VP or above is very often required. To a certain degree, this is form over substance, but that's what works over here. 3. To solve some of these problems, Enron should consider doing what some other international companies have done (and I think Cindy and her team may already be working on this). A job banding study should be done and based on responsibilities, everyone globally should be placed in a band. It would not be a title band of VP or director or manager, but rather a band with a non-title classification. I hate to suggest a band with numbers, such as 1 through 15, because that sounds way too much like the government, but something like that would work. Once this is done, communication is made to employees that the band is what is key in determining their compensation and level within the organization. Then, the business units can rely on their particular market dynamics or on what their competition is doing to determine job titles. Thus if the Global Origination group needs to have a title of Senior Trader and EECC needs a title of Project Leader and Enron India needs a Regional Vice President, all can be accomplished while keeping these same people at a consistent level for global Enron purposes. I will be happy to discuss this further with any of you. Plus, I will volunteer to participate in finding a solution that works for all of Enron while taking into account  the specifc business unit and/or global function needs. Wade 
fyi 
for meeting file 
See attached memo. 
thanks for your help in preparing for the Texas hearing.  I think Texas legislators are viewing the California experience in the proper context and I think I was at least marginally articulate on the emissions issues as well. 
I think this is a fine attempt, but I continue to believe that a pure relative ranking offers the most flexibility and is more like the way the process works in practice.  A separate list of desired behaviors, criteria etc can be used to guide discussion but I believe the ranking itself should remain purely relative. Gina Corteselli 09/14/2000 06:04 PM 
All; Aattached are a draft of the PRC cluster descriptors which we discussed several weeks back.  I has sent a first draft to Michelle and Dick, and both had some suggestions which I have tried to incorporate.  I am still awaiting Dick and Michelle's impressions of the below, but also  look forward to your impressions and input. Likewise I would appreciate your input on whether or not we need to change the ratings on the feedback forms to numerical ratings 1-5 to mimic the clusters.  look forward to hearing from you,  Many thanks, Gina 
Dick; here is another try at the descriptors.  I tried to apply the information you provided and to describe qualities of an employee's performance . I'm  not sure whether this is any better, but would appreciate your input.  What I am finding most challenging writing descriptors which are interchangeable with all levels and job groups within the company.  The behaviors these describe and measure need to be general in nature so that they can apply to a VP and an admin assistant, as well as to all four Peer Groups within Enron. Likewise, I would appreciate your thoughts on the necessity/value of changing the feedback forms to reflect the same numerical ratings.  presently the feedback forms use the same descriptors as the cluster (i.e. Superior - Issues).  In your opinion should these also be 1-5 ratings with one = to highest and 5= to lowest in scale? I look forward to hearing your thoughts and impressions.  You may either e-mail me or call me on 713 345-3377.  Many thanks in advance, Gina ****************************************************************************** **************************************** 1 = Relative to his/her peers, this employee is a visionary who identifies new ideas and methods, inspires and motivates others by example, embodies Enron's vision and values, and demonstrates a mastery of the business and technical skills necessary to excel in his/her position. 2 = Relative to his/her peers this employee drives change, demonstrates vision and values, displays resourcefulness when faced with unexpected challenges, and comprehends and effectively uses the business and technical skills required to perform his/her job. 3 = Relative to his/her peers this employee supports innovation and improvement, understands Enron's vision and values, and continues to develop the core skills and business/technical skills necessary to satisfy the requirements of his/her position. 4 = Relative to his/her peers this employee accepts change, demonstrates some independent thinking and can apply resources and business and technical skills to adequately perform his/her job. 5 = Relative to his/her peers this employee has difficulty accepting change, lacks resourcefulness, offers minimal contribution and  does not demonstrate the skills or knowledge to fulfill the responsibilities of the position  This employee must make changes or termination is likely. 
I share your perceptions of Jose, though I don't have as much contact as you do.  I know also from some recent discussions with Rick (who has also had a fair amount of contact with Jose) that he has very positive views on Jose's work.  I think we should make a concerted effort to get the feedback and have a good discussion about Jose at year end to ensure that he is properly ranked. James M Bannantine@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 10/03/2000 07:13 PM 
I realize the group may go a different way with this, but I remain convinced that we should go to a pure number system (ie a pure relative ranking) and use the behaviors and skills descriptions as a way of discussing the 
Steve, We have revised the PRC Cluster descriptors again, in an attempt to include ""relativity"" into the language.  Likewise,  for consistency we opted  not to change them too drastically at the year end.  Instead we will look at making other changes (for example, reducing the number of clusters from 6 to 5 and/or changing the wording)  at the mid-year 2001. The VP PRC Committee had a chance to look at the revised clusters at last week's meeting.  However, I apologize that I did not send them to you in advance of that meeting. Cindy has asked me to send them to the Executive Committee after you have had a chance to review them. Please let me know what you think. Thanks in advance, Gina Corteselli 
I think paul has a number of good suggestions here.  I think that tying rankings to clear objectives does not reflect the fluidity of our charge, though, and will lead to expectations which may not be met.  I also feel strongly that the ranking needs to be a relative one -- I would go to a pure number system.  We are going to need to assess at each PRC whether the organization is strong (in which case I think it's ok to have a disproportionate number of high ratings) or whether the organization has weaknesses that force us to grade tougher.  You don't get that in an absolute system with preset expectations.  I think your group in particular has done a good job of emphasizing team work ( and punishing those who don't play well) so we need not create a competitive or jockeying environment so long as that emphasis is communicated explicitly. I agree with Paul's points about giving clear, specific feed back (though I don't think we can give a clear target for what one must accomplish to be superior).  I also like the idea of the abbreviated mid year PRC to deal with those we need to counsel more vigorously.  I'm not sure we can get away with it but I am willing to give it a shot. I think Paul is to be complimented for taking time to focus on the larger organizational issues .... very vice presidential of him... no overstepping of bounds ... quite the contrary. Richard Shapiro@EES 10/31/2000 02:52 PM 
Can we discuss? 
Here's my effort to respond to the PRC discussion we had in Kohler. The criteria for evaluating folks is at the end of the presentation ... but I took the liberty to go a bit further and comprehensively address the PRC process.    Hope I didn't overstep my bounds .... I'm around today, as well as Monday (ENA meeting most of the day) and Tuesday, but then traveling in Reno, Las Vegas and San Francisco for the remainder of the week.   I'd welcome the opportunity to discuss the reasoning and rationale behind the document. As I said on my voice mail, I circulated the document to the attendees at Kohler (with the exception of Sue L. and Linda R.).  I've had feedback from a number of the attendees, but I can't call it a consensus document. As always, thanks for the opportunity to make suggestions like this. 
I would drop the second sentence (it's a bit convoluted).  I would also like to look at what else the ad says -- ie how are the quotes introduced, what other quotes will be used, etc. Jeffrey Keeler 10/30/2000 09:54 AM 
Steve: The Pew Center on Climate Change is planning an advertisement to run in a special supplement to the Washington Post and International Herald Tribune around the time of COP 6 climate treaty meetings in the Hague in November, and they would like to include a quote from Ken Lay.   A similar quote was included a Pew Washington Post ad that ran in April 2000. I've revised it a bit to read:   ""Enron supports market-based initiatives that create efficient, cost-effective and environmentally sound energy systems.  As a company, we use our global networks to provide innovative solutions that help the world meet its energy needs while reducing greenhouse 
Please get the list of people I interviewed (and their resumes) from Allison Bailey and confirm with her that if the attached spreadsheet shows a ""y"" next to their name that means they received an offer (if ""n"" then no offer).  I would like to email those i interviewed who recieved offers 
Please call or e-mail candidates who have received ""offers"".All of your hard work paid off - you have a great list of ""offers"".  These students have all been called and will receive a letter/packet by the end of the week. 
DCA, and PSC 
DCA, and PSC Chris Jensen, Executive Director of the Florida Energy Pipeline Association, has learned from some DEP agency contacts that the Alliance (operating behind the front organization known as Friends of the Aquifer, Inc.) has decided to drop their lawsuits appealing the denials of their petitions to more severely regulate pipelines in Florida.  While this is good news for those of us fighting the war here in Florida, the reason for this withdrawal of their appeals of failed efforts on three different petitions at the state level in Florida is because of their belief that their current activity at the Federal level holds greater promise of success and their desire to concentrate their resources in that effort. My thoughts on this is that the pipeline industry should get organized and execute a ""full court press"" defense which is proactive as we move into increased future efforts at the  Federal level by the Alliance through their other front organizations.  These organizations have been created to burden pipeline competition to benefit the maritime interests. From my vantage point I am limited to mostly what I see in the press, but these front organization are winning the battle in the national press that I have seen and heard.  AOPL and INGAA do not come across in the press as being equipped or prepared to handle the shaping of the pipeline safety issues in the press that these Alliance front organizations have been doing. Our Enron government affairs folks in Washington are knowledgeable, experienced and capable. They have been through this battle and other battles in the past.  So this is not a criticism, but just a friendly observation from a remote vantage point, that if the entire pipeline industry does not develop a proactive plan to shape the issues in the national media during the next year, we will find it very difficult or perhaps impossible to come out of Congress with legislation that is reasonable and workable from a safety regulation perspective.  It has been my experience with the Alliance in the past, that to any extent they are successful,  they will then multiply their efforts and broaden their field of attack. The issue is not safety of pipelines, but competition for the transportation of energy.  We have an industry that can be very proud of it's record of safety, economic benefits, reliability, public service, energy efficiency and environmentally favorable service when compared to any other mode of transporting energy.  We have learned from our experiences, research and mistakes in the past and will continue to learn in the future so that future pipeline service will be even better for our people whom we serve. Our entire energy pipeline industry (natural gas and petroleum) needs to shape the issues in the national press and tell our very good story so the politicians are not overrun with public opinion shaped by our maritime competition. Thanks for your interest.  This is a ""heads-up"" that is probably not needed, but I felt that there might be something in it that would help with a very difficult current and future issue. 
I am pleased to advise you that Enron will be one of the sponsors of the 2000 Synergy Awards, an annual event organized by the Citizens' Environmental Coalition.  The Synergy Awards are given ""in recognition of progress, achievement, hard work and/or resourceful stewardship in a broad spectrum of 
calendar 
In response to an anticipated low participation rate in the Nov. 15 Vision and Values meeting, we are rescheduling the Vision and Values meeting to Tuesday, Nov. 14, from 2-3:30 in eb8c1. Please plan to attend this rescheduled meeting.  Please let me know if you are unavailable for the meeting. Thanks! Gina x37681 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
My mistake, but no reason to stop the presses. 
I just noticed one minor error.  I think that you are trying to highlight that Terry Winter, the Chief Executive Officer of the ISO voted against the proposal.  In the text, you say the Chairman of the ISO.  There is no Chairman of the ISO.  There is a Chairman of the Board of the ISO -- Jan Smutney-Jones -- who has consistently voted against the price caps since 
thanks.  the letter is already out, but we will be accurate in follow up calls and in press interviews. Tim Belden@ECT 10/31/2000 08:33 AM 
I just noticed one minor error.  I think that you are trying to highlight that Terry Winter, the Chief Executive Officer of the ISO voted against the proposal.  In the text, you say the Chairman of the ISO.  There is no Chairman of the ISO.  There is a Chairman of the Board of the ISO -- Jan Smutney-Jones -- who has consistently voted against the price caps since June.  Sorry for the delay in getting back to you. 
The attached letter is being delivered this morning to the FERC commissioners.  Since the letter concerns a matter currently pending before the commission it will also be served on the parties.  We plan to talk to the press about it as well.  A number of other companies and organizations are also submitting letters and we have helped prepare an EPSA filing which focusses specifically on California.  Our best information at this point is that the FERC staff report regarding California is generally accurate, and therefore, favorable.  While it will mention periodic exercises of market power, it is expected to lay blame for California's woes at the feet of California's own decisions about market structure.  It is further expected that the report will not provide a basis for ordering refunds.  On the other hand, the Commission's order (to be considered tomorrow along with the staff's report) is expected to at least put refunds on the table for comment and to discuss, and perhaps implement, further price caps.  This is just our best guess at this point.  the Commission has put special emphasis on putting the report and order under wraps until wednesday. 
treasurers worldwide 
Any interest? 
treasurers worldwide Dear  Steve, ? I am sending this to Jeff Skilling, but?I wanted  to send you a copy as well to make sure it got into the right hands.? This  is a big idea that Enron is especially well positioned to benefit from.? I  will telephone you to follow up. ? Sincerely, ? Vidar J. Jorgensen Global Cash  Exchange 500 West Cummings Park Suite 5200 Woburn, MA? 01801 P:? 781-939-2572 F:? 781-939-2574 Cell P:? 781-929-2965 vidar@cbinet.com ? ? ? ? October 31, 2000 Mr. Jeffrey K. Skilling P: 713-853-6161 President & COO F: 713-646-8381 Enron jeff.skilling@enron.com 1400 Smith Street Houston, TX 77002 
and treasurers worldwide Dear Jeff: I have worked with Ken Lay and others at Enron through the World Economic Development Congress where we brought together ministers of finance and oil immediately prior to the IMF/World Bank Meeting. InfrastructureWorld, of which I am co-founder and vice chairman, has recently  received $10 million each in funding from the IFC division of the World Bank and  Bechtel. GlobalCashExchange is a separate, but related business. We have the  plan, the experienced management team and proven technology, and we will be  selecting major financial institution as a partner. At the request of our corporate CFOs we are developing an internet based exchange for foreign exchange, short-term cash and credit that could give Enron  a powerful product to sell to corporations worldwide. I have attached and  executive summary and a business plan. I would like to discuss this with you at  your earliest convenience. Major sources of trade, development and investment friction and inefficiency in large developing countries in particular include the facilitation of foreign  exchange, short term cash, credit and working capital transactions. This is a  source of high cost and frustration even for major global corporations, and for  middle and smaller corporations these are even greater burdens. Today there are  no reliable and continuous flowing price sources for softer currencies as there  are for hard currencies. Even the larger soft currencies like the Real or Rupee  are quoted only 3 to 4 times a day on Reuters, and the only spot quotes are  available from traders who are motivated to benefit from a large spread. The  GlobalCashExchange will allow buyers to transact at the middle of the interbank  spread. There are lots of Internet based foreign exchanges, and none that I have  actually seen support buyer to buyer transactions. GlobalCashExchange will develop an Internet based exchange for foreign exchange, short term cash and credit. The goal is to reduce costs of such transactions. Global Cash Exchange can also greatly enhance capital formation  and the formation of local capital markets in developing countries. This is a  large and complex undertaking where we will need to be partnering with one or a  group of major financial institutions like Citibank, Cantor Fitzgerald, State  Street Bank, Schwab and the World Bank. As you know, the Foreign Exchange (FX) market is the largest and most participated financial market in the world with over $1.5 trillion exchanges daily throughout the world. There is no central market place for FX transactions: all FX transactions are conducted through a network of banks, dealers and brokers. Approximately 2/3 of FX transactions involve banks dealing  directly with each other. The potential market for short term cash and credit  --which will ultimately reduce the need for foreign exchange transactions -- is  even larger. We are funding this internally and are starting to develop outside investor support. We have established great partnerships with organizations such as Standard & Poor's and Medley Global Advisors  (http://www.medleyadvisors.com ), for ratings and content on the site, VMAC (a  division of FSA that has patented the concept of providing pooled credit  enhancement facilities http://www.fsa.com), for revolving credit enhancement  facilities and Gen3Partners (http://www.gen3partners.com), for strategic and  technological advice. Transactions that cannot be matched can be cleared through Deerhurst, a leading foreign exchange fund manager who has agreed to provide liquidity from day one. We also know that we can purchase insurance for around  $7 billion of annual transactions for just under $1M a year. GCX is now at a  point that it has answered most of the questions that we had. We have a  commitment from Ashton Technologies for full build out of SEC approved  technology in exchange for equity. This technology has been used successfully  for more complex securities transactions and allows for many equity market  facilities that Forex markets do not currently have such as reserve book, limit  order and so forth. A description of the Ashton technology and an executive  summary that we use for our corporate clients are attached. We have good corporate support through World Research Advisory (WRA), an affiliated provider of research for corporate treasurers. WRA supplies Gartner  and Forrester type subscription research and advisory services to global 2000  companies. The contact list includes the CFO's of the following companies, many  of whom have agreed to participate in the Global Cash Exchange: ALCOA ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY AT&T BELLSOUTH CORPORATION CHUBB CORPORATION CNF TRANSPORTATION, INC. COMPAQ CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC. DELL DUPONT DYNEGY, INC. EXIDE CORPORATION FDX CORPORATION FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO FORD MOTOR CORPORATION FPL ENERGY, INC GENZYME CORPORATION GILLETTE COMPANY HALLMARK CARDS INC. HEWLETT-PACKARD INTERNATIONAL PAPER KPMG LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION LITTON INDUSTRIES LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES MASTERCARD MCDONALDS CORPORATION MERCK & COMPANY MERISEL, INC. MICROSOFT CORPORATION MOTOROLA, INC. NORDSON CORPORATION ORACLE CORPORATION PECO ENERGY COMPANY PEOPLESOFT PEPSICO, INC. PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC PPF INDUSTRIES RYDER SYSTEM, INC. SCHOLASTIC CORPORATION SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC. SEALY, INC. SIEMENS SONOCO PRODUCTS CO. SUN MICROSYSTEMS U.S. POSTAL SERVICE WESTINGHOUSE So we have willing and interested contacts at Global 2000  companies. I will telephone you to follow up. I can be reached by telephone at 781-939-2572, by fax at 781-939-2574 and via e-mail at v.jorgensen@worldcongress.com. Sincerely, ? Vidar J. Jorgensen GlobalCashExchange Attachments: 1. IFC World Bank Press Release (00-0926-06) 2. Ashton Technology Product Description (00-1025-03) 3. Executive Summary for prospective corporate clients (00-1018-06) 4. GCX Business Plan 
Joe Hartsoe, Rick Shapiro, or Jim Steffes can fill you in on the details of what FERC did today.  One question you need to think about is how their decision on price caps affects any contracts which we may have indexed to California's spot market.  The way it reports the market clearing price will change fundamentally if prices over 150 will be accepted but not used to clear the market for all bids.  So, if we are using this as a reference price in our contracts it may trigger the need to look for alternatives. 
USA: FACTBOX-FERC details changes for Calif power market. 11/01/2000 Reuters English News Service (C) Reuters Limited 2000. WASHINGTON, Nov 1 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Wednesday approved several actions to revamp California's power market over the next two years. Immediate changes include the following: * Eliminate requirement that three utilities - Pacific Gas & Electric, San Diego Power and SoCal Edison - must sell all of their power to and buy all their power from the state Power Exchange (PX). * Require market participants to schedule 95 percent of their transactions in the day-ahead markets to reduce chronic underscheduling of load and generation and over-reliance on the ISO's real-time imbalance market to meet supply. FERC also proposed a penalty charge for scheduling deviations in excess of 5 percent of hourly load requirements. * Temporary modification of the single-price auction so bids above $150 MWh cannot set the market clearing price paid to all bidders. * Establish independent, non-stakeholder governing boards for the California Power Exchange (PX) and Independent System Operator (ISO). * Create congestion management design proposal. * Establish generation inter-connection procedures. * Explore alternatives to the single price auction by the ISO and PX. * Develop market rules to ensure sufficient supply is available to meet load and reserve requirements. FERC also approved changes to protect wholesale customers from unreasonable rates during the time it will take to adopt longer-term market remedies. The following price mitigation measures will remain in effect until Dec. 31, 2002: * Single-price auctions for all sales in the ISO and PX markets at or below $150 MWh. The single price would be used for all load which clears below this amount in the auction. * If an auction does not clear below the $150 MWh level, suppliers who choose to bid above $150 would be paid their price bid. In other words, the highest bid of the day, if above $150 per MWh, would no longer be the clearing price paid by all. * Sellers receiving above $150 per MWh would be required to report their bids to FERC on a weekly basis and provide certain cost information to the agency. * The ISO and PX would be required to report monthly information on such bids, allowing FERC to monitor competitive conditions and assure just and reasonable rates. Sellers would be subject to potential refund liability but no lower than their marginal or opportunity cost if FERC finds non-competitive conditions. The potential refund liability would extend the full 24 months it would take to implement the market reforms. Copyright , 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I am out of town. Joe - can you attend? Laura Evans@EES 10/31/2000 02:27 PM 
This is a reminder of the meeting with Jew Don Boni on Thursday, November 2 from 12:00 to 2:00 in EB 872..Lunch will be provided....Please confirm that you will be attending......Thanks, Laurie 
Please ask Ken to sign the following.  But, in the Advisory Council letter delete the reference to the December Board meeting and check with Ken on whether he still plans to brief the Enron Board at the December meeting (I believe he talked to Kelly Kimberly about this). 
Steve, Per our meeting yesterday, attached are the draft letters from Ken Lay to the Board and Advisory Council.  l will deliver a box of Annual Reports today so that they can be delivered to Rebecca Carter once the letters are signed and returned to you. Please call me if there are any questions. Susan Worthen Director Environmental Compliance, Enron Corp 713/646-6579  713/345-6164 fax 
I think it looks good.  a few suggestions though: I haven't read the whole reprt so I can't say for sure that it alleges no price gouging (make sure to forward this to Jeff ... my e-mail is slow on the road).  We can say though, that instead of blaming generators and marketers the report blames the structure of the market for California's woes. I think we should shorten the quote to something like "" the reprt is consistent with what we have said all along. We should say that the scheduling penalties part of the order will ""penalize utilities for underscheduling"" not predicting. Hedging is not about holding pirces down so much as it is about protecting people from wild price swings ... that's what allowing utilities to buy outside the spot should help do. (Also, my title is just EVP and Chief of Staff) JMandelker@aol.com 11/01/2000 03:32 PM 
Thanks for talking to me about this article for this Friday's eBiz. Please read it over and let me have comments tomorrow morning (Thursday). it goes live 5 p.m. Thursday evening. Sorry for AOL -- my Notes is wreaking havoc today. (Jeff -- Steve confirmed that the report said power sellers did not exercise market power or price gouging, so I put it in the article.) Take care, Jeannie - FERC Report.doc 
Greenbert, Wash. D.C. 
Did Ken ask us to sponsor it or just consider it?  I'm wondering what if anything we gain from such an investment, but I have an open mind on it. Joe Hillings 10/30/2000 08:35 AM 
Greenbert, Wash. D.C. Joe Hillings Enron 1775 Eye Street, NW Suite 800 Washington, DC  20006 202-466-9145 202-828-3372 (fax) email:  jhillin@enron.com Steve: Reference is made to the letter Ken Lay forwarded to you asking Enron to support the dinner at which The Nixon Center will present to AIG CEO Hank Greenbert their annual architect of Peace Award. I would recommend that Enron sponsor a table at the rate of $10,000. Linda and I could co-host the table and invite others as our guests. Please review and advise. Joe 
My only comment relates to the Azurix reference  ... it's not a significant part of the biz and things have changed recently.  i don't think it merits reference. Rick Buy@ECT 10/23/2000 02:59 PM 
Steve- can you have someone take a look at the attached article and give me your thoughts. There is a lot of information in there that I did not provide but they must be picking up from literature. Thanks, Rick 
Hi Rick, As we discussed this morning. Regards, James 
Hi Rick, Thank you again for spending time with Alan and me this week on the Enron case study for my book.  Attached for your review is a draft that we put together.  I think you will be happy with the tone and content of the case.  Otherwise, please call me to discuss any changes you might have. (See attached file: 17_Enron-am-jl.doc) Note that the case makes reference to three charts that you said you would email to me: Organizational chart of the RAC Group and summary descriptions (we will use this information to update this section of the case) Dashboard approval sheet (cartoon version) 1-page flow chart of Board transaction approval process Please provide these three charts and any changes you might have by Friday, 9/15.  Thanks. Regards, James 212-541-8100 - 17_Enron-am-jl.doc 
John -- I'm copying Janine and Barb on this message as they are most likely to be able to identify someone. Janine and Barb -- could one of you get in touch with John? John Stokes@AZURIX 11/02/2000 06:45 AM 
Once again, I come to you for help.  We were awarded a biosolids dewatering contract in Grand Rapids, Michigan about a month ago.  We had bid against the incumbent, a company called Synagro.  You may recall that Azurix is in litigation with Syangro over a busted acquisition, but the two events are not related.  In any case, we were low bidder, and the recommendation was made to award the contract to us.  Synagro has been working to get the award overturned, and appears to have been successful.  It is not yet clear whether they are going to award the deal to Synagro, or re-bid.  It is not even clear what the grounds are for overturning the award, which indicates that it may be pure politics. Do we have any good political consultants that could help us in Grand Rapids?  We do not have much of a presence in that area, and were responding to a publicly advertised bid.  Price and technical qualifications were the only issues.  Politics did not enter into it until now, so we were caught a little flat-footed. Any suggestions? 
congratulations on a great launch!  The US press on the office opening has been great.  If you haven't seen it, get in touch with Ann Schmidt. Nicholas O'Day 11/02/2000 04:15 AM 
Preliminary figures for the Enron Japan website are looking promising. Since its launch on Tuesday, we have had 4000 page hits, with an average of 320 site hits per day and an average stay of 20 minutes. Advertising to date has been limited to the 300 guests at the office opening and the office opening press conference. We will be increasing awareness of the site over the coming weeks, mainly through word of mouth, and will finalize the articles for next month's edition in a couple of weeks. kind regards 
I believe the registration deadline for the Nov 7 election has passed.  I'll ask Eliz to forward the registration materials to you so you can be ready for the next election.  Also, if you were registered in Harris County before you may still be on the rolls at your old precinct ... you should ask. A G Gelotti@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 11/02/2000 12:36 AM 
Steve, My wife and I have been out of the country and have not registered to vote nor do we have absentee ballots to vote.  Any suggestions on how we can vote? Sent by: Enron Announcements@ENRON 
Avoid the crunch on election day by voting early! ENRON is providing employees with complimentary shuttle service from the Enron Building to the downtown early voting site!! Thursday, November 2 and Friday, November 3 1319 Texas Avenue @ Austin Street 7:00 am until 7:00 pm (transportation by Beal's - pick-up on the West end of Andrews Street) In order to vote early at this site, you must be registered in Harris County and present your drivers license for ID verification (your voter registration card is not necessary) Please take advantage of this opportunity and VOTE!! For election-related questions, please reference this website: www.co.harris.tx.us/cclerk/elect.htm 
I don't want to disrupt building a more collegial relationship here, but I have some concerns about their reticence to sound more positive about reaching agreement on our two key issues.  Can we put the question differently:  what are the barriers to their concurrence and what can we do together to address those barriers?  If the barriers for EEI are insurmountable because of the recalcitrance of a few members, can they facilitate a dialogue between us and a more progressive group? James D Steffes 11/01/2000 05:25 PM 
Sounds positive.  I think that both sides are realistic but willing to work together.  I think we need to keep this going forward.  If we let this hang out too long, we could lose the momentum. Jim 
the Year.  You are invited to attend luncheon.  Vanessa Groscrand will follow up with details. 
Junior League, by the Ritz, starts at 12:00, there's an Enron table, buffet line. 
I am very interested in pursuing this and I believe Enron presents an ideal case study for the purposes you outlined.  I am copying Christie Patrick on this message and asking her to coordinate this for us.  Christie has worked on other case studies and will be very helpful in navigating Enron for you. Don Sull <dsull@hbs.edu> 11/03/2000 10:46 AM 
Steve, Wanted to thank you again for reviewing the strategy as simple rules article.  It is forthcoming in the next Harvard Business Review and will send you some reprints once the magazine hits the newsstands. Also wanted to gauge your interest in a possible even at the Harvard Business School in April 2001.  We are currently finalizing our plans for the Entrepreneurial Manager--a first year course on entrepreneurship taken by all 1,000 of our MBA students.  As part of the course, we will feature an entrepreneurial company as the capstone class in the course.  Last year we featured Intuit, taught an Intuit case study and hosted Scott Cook who spoke to the entire MBA class.  The session was a huge success--the highest rated class in our course and had a lasting impact on how our students think about entrepeneurship.  We were wondering whether you and your colleagues might be interested in being our featured company this year. If you decided to proceed, we would first write a case study focused on the process of creating new ventures within Enron.    The case would probably consist of three portions:  an overview of the Enron corporation, an in-depth description of one or two ventures successfully formed in the past, and a profile of someone currently attempting to start a new venture within Enron.   In preparing the case, we would draw heavily on existing case studies, articles, and book chapters profiling Enron to avoid duplicating effort.   We would then supplement our desk research by interviewing approximately 15-20 Enron employees, including top management team members (especially Ken Lay and Jeff Skilling), some folks involved in past ventures, and the people currently attempting to start a new venture.  Each interview would take approximately 60 minutes.  We could probably complete the bulk of the interviews in a two to three day visit to Enron, supplemented by telephone interviews.  The ideal timing for these interviews from our perspective would be the last week of November or the first few weeks of December.  We would then return to Boston, write a draft of the case and then submit that to you for review and clearance in January.  We could then make any last minute changes before distributing the case to the students for the April discussion. In addition to writing the case study, we would like to invite a group of Enron executives to HBS when we discuss the case in April.    The ideal date would be the 27th of April, but we could schedule the Enron day the 23rd, 24th or 25th if the 27th were impossible for you.  Last year Intuit sent along six folks--some junior, some senior--each of whom sat in at least one of our class discussions.  In addition, Scott Cook spoke to the entire MBA class.  We would like to follow the same format this year, so it would be super if either Jeff or Ken (or in the best of all worlds, both!) could speak to the MBAs as a whole.  With Intuit last year, we kicked off at about 8:30 and wrapped everything up by approximately 1:00.  We would shoot for roughly similar timing this year. Many of our students equate entrepreneurship with start-ups, and this day is designed to show them that it is possible (although extremely difficult) for large companies to be entrepreneurial.  As such, you and your colleagues would be providing an invaluable service to our students, and we would be deeply grateful for your contribution.  The event might also have some direct benefits to Enron in terms of increased profile among our students.  If you were interested, we could also explore opportunities to leverage this event to further increase Enron's profile as a leader of the New Economy.  We might, for instance, bundle the case study with a teaching note and edited video as a module on ""entrepreneurship in large companies"" and distribute it to other business schools through Harvard Business School press.  My colleagues and I would be most grateful for your cooperation and would be happy to explore ways that you might increase your return on the time invested. Please let me know if this opportunity might be of interest to you and your colleagues and how you would like to proceed.  I very much look forward to hearing from you. Don Donald N. Sull South Hall 211 Harvard Business School Boston, MA  USA  02163 dsull@hbs.edu telephone:  617 496 7179 fax:  617 495-3817 home page:  http://www.people.hbs.edu/dsull/bio.html assistant:  Maurie SuDock (617 495-6473) 
Let's add Rick, Jim and me Elizabeth Linnell 11/02/2000 05:05 PM 
Let's put one in your name and one in Linda's. Thanks! Eric Benson 11/02/2000 03:56 PM 
As a follow up to your  email I spoke to Janet Butler again about the ability to view FERC meetings.  Jan told me that the password is not tied to one location.  The password works for all locations.  A location equals a person/user.  The only requirement is to have Real Video access which Jan informs me is on the ENA Lan.  My understanding from Jan Butler is that the cost is $90 per user/location per month. I will send the request to Jan to add two users/locations per your request. Jan will need names for the locations.  Do you want the locations to be in your name and Steve's or how do you want to set that up. Eric ============================================================================== ====================================================== 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes Mail ID ""Move-Team"". 
PLEASE E-MAIL ALL BILLING ISSUES TO ""CLIFFORD.JACKSON@ENRON.COM"" OR TO THE SPECIFIC SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM(S) AS DETAILED BELOW:       Year 2000 changes: Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost center where possible, otherwise to the rent location.  The description will start with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source. Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of one connection for each port in a room. Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for all the various services provided by Enron Information Services. EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in EB, 2AC, 3AC, or JF.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson for this purpose. People-specific services are billed to the company and cost center corresponding to the employee's SAP company and department. Video conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings are based on a company and cost center furnished by the resource using the service. EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the SAP company and cost center for each employee.  This snapshot is taken about the 21st of each month for use as a source for billing information. Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If the billings are incorrect, generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the correct SAP department by contacting the HR representative.  If the room number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes 
Thanks, Barb. Barbara A Hueter 11/03/2000 02:15 PM 
John Stokes. Laird Smith and I spoke with Eric Schneidewind this afternoon. Varnum is currently representing the city on isolated matters.  Varnum is approaching the city attorney to obtain a waiver of any conflict of interest so that they may engage in lobbying activities on Azurix's behalf.  Eric is very confident that the city attorney will issue with waiver.  Varnum made it clear that should Azurix lose the contract and wish to engage in any legal action against the city, then Azurix would not be able to use Varnum b/c of their existing relationship with the city.  John assured Eric that it is extremely unlikely that Azuriz would ever pursue legal action against the city. John Stokes has asked that Varnum deal directly with Tom Maxwell in the Edmonton office once the waiver is obtained. They will keep us posted on progress. 
I have spoken with Eric Schneidewind our attorney at Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt and Howlett in Lansing.  He is contacting other attorneys in the firm to follow up on this immediately.  Varnum is one of the two major west Michigan law firms and is based in Grand Rapids. John Stokes and I have spoken.  As soon as I learn anything from our attorneys, I will be in contact with him. I also have a call into our lobbying firm, Karoub Associates.  I doubt that they could be more effective than Varnum on this one, but I want them in the loop b/c they might have some pull with key officials in Grand Rapids. I will keep you posted. 
John -- I'm copying Janine and Barb on this message as they are most likely to be able to identify someone. Janine and Barb -- could one of you get in touch with John? John Stokes@AZURIX 11/02/2000 06:45 AM 
Once again, I come to you for help.  We were awarded a biosolids dewatering contract in Grand Rapids, Michigan about a month ago.  We had bid against the incumbent, a company called Synagro.  You may recall that Azurix is in litigation with Syangro over a busted acquisition, but the two events are not related.  In any case, we were low bidder, and the recommendation was made to award the contract to us.  Synagro has been working to get the award overturned, and appears to have been successful.  It is not yet clear whether they are going to award the deal to Synagro, or re-bid.  It is not even clear what the grounds are for overturning the award, which indicates that it may be pure politics. Do we have any good political consultants that could help us in Grand Rapids?  We do not have much of a presence in that area, and were responding to a publicly advertised bid.  Price and technical qualifications were the only issues.  Politics did not enter into it until now, so we were caught a little flat-footed. Any suggestions? 
see resume attached 
Attached are a revised org chart and a revised org memo.  Work form these drafts to incororate the handwritten changes I have given you. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. 
Attached is the presentation I used for a very general update on deregulation; it includes some California material. 
Looks good Elizabeth Peters@EES 11/06/2000 08:27 PM 
Peggy asked me to forward the draft of a news release.  We would like to fax it to three newspapers in New York/New Jersey and are scheduled to release on Wednesday at 8:00 am.  Let her know if there are any comments, x57034. Thanks. Beth Peters 
Ricardo -- Mark's organization is on point on this one. 
Steve, Alberto Usobiaga who initially headed Azurix in Mexico is now working for Aguas de Barcelona (major share holders: Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux, the Spanish Energy Conglomerate ENDESA and the Caixa-Barcelona Pension Funds). He tells me that he contacted Rebecca Mark and  John Garrison and offered them to buy all of Azurix Mexico's business (Cancun, IASA in Mexico City and the Leon and Torreon concessions).  There was no clear response. If the Argentinian Government approves they might be iunterested at taking a look at Azurix in Argentina.  They cannot buy Wessex because of regulatory issues. They are certainly ready for Mexico. How should I proceed? Please advise. 
Dave Delaney has asked that we accelerate our look at space alternatives in Mexico City.  If you assume that you and Jaime and (perhaps) one person from EBS remain there, what do you think the cost is (or when can you let me 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. Thanks. 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. 
FYI - we had a bomb threat this am. 
Shelly just called with some updated (and revised) information: The location of the threat was our Loop Central Office, 4828 Loop Central Drive, suite 620.  It's an office building, and we have about 50 IT and software engineers in that office.  There is no signage identifying Enron on the building or on the suite.  One of our employees in the office received the call.  The police responded, evacuated and searched the building but did not find anything.  All employees have returned to the building.  Ch. 13 was 
Network television is developing a ""Texas Version"" of ""Survivor"", the popular TV show... Contestants must travel from Amarillo through Fort Worth, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, and back to Amarillo, through San Marcos and Lubbock... driving a Volvo with a bumper sticker that reads: ""I'm for Gore, I'm Gay and I'm Here to Take Your Guns"". The first to complete the round trip is the winner. 
Sorry to bring more to you but perhaps this is something that Rob Walls could easily look through.  Global has a contract that is ready for signing. Global is involved as an investor in Razorfinish.com.  The person who is supposed to sign the contract is procrastinating as long as possible bec ause the contract is not in the interest of Enron.  I told the person not to sign 
It's a hoax..  This e-mail made it into a reporter's hands and the reporter asked about this in the Clinton-Lazio debates in NY.  CNN covered the hoax the next day. The US Postal Service denied it, of course. By the way, I have never seen a letter -- ""P"" -- following a bill number in the Congressional numbering system. Sherri Sera 11/07/2000 01:33 PM 
Do you know if there is any truth to this?  SRS 
I will be on the first panel of the FERC California conference on Thursday. The format allows a 5 min presentation and then 60 min of Q&A.  I need your help to make sure I have ""Gore-like"" command of the details.  Please help with the following information: Enron project information (Parquet/McCubbin) -- please give me any presentations or summaries you have on the generation, or firm purchases, we have under way (or planned).  I'll talk with you to find out what we are comfortable disclosing but please err on the side of giving whatever information you have. Updated Belden presentation (Hain/Belden) -- I believe the latest information was as of August; I think some of the information on the cost of peaking facilities is particularly eye-opening on the price cap issue. Comparison to PJM (Hartsoe/Novosel) -- Is the information we are seeking from the ISO and PX similar to information PJM already provides?  If so, it would be nice to tie our requests back to something the Commission has already approved. Cancelled DSM projects (Mahoney) -- Again, I'll only use what we feel comfortable with, but it would help make our point if we can give examples of how price caps backfire when it comes to encouraging conservation. ISO/PX reports (Dasovich).  I have the ISO market surveillance report.  Is there another ISO report?  If so, please get me a copy and provide a copy of the PX report too. CEC/Proposed generation update (Mara/Parquet) -- Need the basic information: proposed, waiting for permitting; how much/little the legislation did to expedite siting (ie are we still comfortable saying that it applies to less than 10%)? Soft cap(Belden/Hain) -- need a crisp explanation of why the ""soft"" nature of the cap is not sufficient.  Also, would we be OK if the Commission revised it to say that bids can be taken above 150 without special filing or reporting requirements, but those bids will be accepted at the price bid rather than applying to all lower bids as well (ie the highest bid at or below 150 clears the market, bids above 150 accepted at price bid as needed)? Offers we have made/deals done (Parquet/Dasovich/ Mccubbin) -- Roseville plus any others, offer made to SDG&E -- I want to make the point that the market will provide solutions (below the retail price cap) if we get the utility (and the regulators) out of the merchant function. Herding the cats(Hartsoe/mccubbin/mara/dasovich):  We are asking FERC to be courageous, do the right thing and ignore the politics.  To be even halfway credible, we can't have IEP, EPSA, Dynegy or anyone else ""squishing"" on the price cap issue..  We have never been closer to reform in California, we need these guys on board. Thanks. 
oops -- thanks Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 11/08/2000 08:33 AM 
Steve Only comment is that you have both Jeff and Ken named as CEO Ken Steven J Kean@ENRON Sent by: Maureen McVicker@ENRON 11/08/00 08:23 AM 
Attached is the (near) final draft of the organization announcement. If you have any comments, please contact me as soon as possible. 
print 
Folks  -- Attached is a summary of the Commission's Order on California. Constitutional Crisis here we come.  Later JOE 
print 
The order issued from today's meeting is attached.  It is approximately 80 pages. - EL00-95.1 
Steve: I am discussing this draft below with Jeff Skilling. The present draft was= =20 not agreed with me. I will get back wih you after my discussion with him. Sanjay Bhatnagar, currently CEO of Enron India, has joined EBS as CEO for t= he=20 Middle East and Asia region. Sanjay will be responsible for building our=20 broadband business in this region and the current EBS team in the region wi= ll=20 report to Sanjay.  In this role, Sanjay will report to the EBS office of th= e=20 Chairman.  In addition, Sanjay will continue to remain responsible for Enro= n=01, s wholesale energy business in India and will work at transitioning this=20 business into Enron Global Assets by March 31st, 2100 and integrating the= =20 India Communication business into EBS. 
There may be some press today about Enron's involvement in the Nepal hydro project.  The government of Nepal is hopeful that we will pursue it, but we are not going to.  Kelly's response on press inquiries will be that we are not pursuing the project.  Kelly will also be getting in touch with David Howe. I just wanted to keep you guys posted in case you are getting 
Do we have a sense for how many we can reach, how many we can't and where they are?  Are whole offices (eg Tokyo) unreachable or is it only those who have home offices? Courtney Votaw 11/08/2000 11:02 AM 
Mark and Steve- Erin Rice and I would like to meet with you to discuss the issues concerning BackWeb before we proceed.  As you can see from the Design Document, they are pretty significant. Thanks, Courtney 
Please respond and copy me. 
Steve, look, I am just trying to get a complete explanation of why NEPCO can not bid during the competitive process for the Cayote II Project.  Can someone give me an adult level explanation?  I would appreciate it.  Thanks. LI72399 
calendar 
Please check schedule and respond 
Dear Mr. Kean, In the effort to schedule the first meeting of the Advisory Board of the CEC's Initiative on North American Electricity Restructuring and the Environment we are proposing the following three dates: 1. Thursday January 11th, 2001 2. Tuesday January 16th, 2001 3. Thursday January 18th, 2001 Due to the difficulties with finding one date that will allow everyone to attend the meeting, we will select a date based on the greatest number of participants who can attend. For those who will not be able to attend the meeting on the selected date, we will try and find an alternative such as a conference-call link. The one-day meeting will take place at the CEC's offices in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, and the CEC will be happy to cover the costs associated with your attendence at the meeting. If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me at ahorsman@ccemtl.org, or at 514-350-4335. We look forward to seeing you in January. Regards, Andrew Horsman 
I will be getting back from Washington late today, but will be in early in the morning (evening your time).  Give me a call Nicholas O'Day 11/06/2000 03:41 AM 
Steve, Is it possible to have 30 minutes of your time sometime this week to discuss by phone an issue relating to the performance evaluation process?  Apologies for being cryptic - this is something that I had hoped to talk with you face to face about when you were in Tokyo. kind regards 
congratulations on a great launch!  The US press on the office opening has been great.  If you haven't seen it, get in touch with Ann Schmidt. Nicholas O'Day 11/02/2000 04:15 AM 
Preliminary figures for the Enron Japan website are looking promising. Since its launch on Tuesday, we have had 4000 page hits, with an average of 320 site hits per day and an average stay of 20 minutes. Advertising to date has been limited to the 300 guests at the office opening and the office opening press conference. We will be increasing awareness of the site over the coming weeks, mainly through word of mouth, and will finalize the articles for next month's edition in a couple of weeks. kind regards 
Just FYI.  These guys did a great job on the polling here, but I can't speak to their other qualifications or their California ties. 
1. Thank you for all your support on the Arena Proposition. 2. The following article reminded me to pass along a note about a PR/PA firm in California who Baselice & Associates worked with this year in passing Prop 35 (a contracting out initiative).  The firm is a full service firm named Woodward & McDowell.  They have been active in California legislative and initiative battles for some 20 years and I highly recommend them if Enron is in search of support with the electric deregulation fight out there.  Dick Woodward or Dave Fogarty can be reached at 650-340-0470. If you have any questions, please call. Mike MICHAEL BASELICE Baselice & Associates, Inc. 4131 Spicewood Springs Road Suite O-2 Austin, TX  78759 Phone: (512) 345-9720 Fax: (512) 345-9740 email: mikeb@baselice.com November 8, 2000 Calif Regulators,Grid Oper In Turf War Over Generation By JASON LEOPOLD Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES LOS ANGELES-California's electricity regulators and power-grid operator are locked in a turf war over who has the authority to order new power plant construction next summer to ensure the state has enough juice on hand when demand soars. The California Public Utilities Commission says it can bring emergency power on line at a fraction of the cost that the Independent System Operator is expected to pay independent power producers for the same service. Under it's plan, PG&E Corp. (PCG) unit Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Edison International's (EIX) Southern California Edison unit and Sempra Energy's (SRE) San Diego Gas & Electric Co. were ordered to submit documents by the end of November stating whether they can build and operate ""peaking"" plants by June 1. The utilities weren't immediately available to comment. On the other hand, the ISO - which is on the verge of signing contracts for 440 peaking units with between 20 and 91 megawatts of electricity - says the commission's meddling could endanger any chance of additional resources coming on line in time. ""Any further interference on the state level could destroy the plan altogether,"" said an ISO source close to the issue. ""There is no guarantee the utilities will be able to pull this off by next summer. And if the 
Thank you David Rosenberg 11/09/2000 07:35 AM 
Congratulations.  Next stop the top. 
Unbelievable ... 130K/month? Richard Shapiro 11/06/2000 10:04 AM 
Here's the info on D.C. office. 
Rick, As per your request.  If you have any questions please let me know. Thank you, Carolyn 
Rick, As per your request.  If you have any questions please let us know. Thanks, Carolyn 
Wendy Gramm (an Enron Board member) referred Jay Valesquez(sp?) to Jeff Skilling about an event in Dallas for  Senator Lugar.  The event is Sunday November 19 and Jeff is out of town.  Would you please give Jay a call and decide what we should do? 
Sandi deserves time off and she shouldn't have an obligation to do e-mail while she is out.  Further,  I was only copying her on messages that many others received (so I don't need to hear back from her).  But, if this is a standard message going out to everyone while the fires continue to rage in California, I think it leaves a bad impression.  Can we find a way to direct urgent requests to someone else in the office or to someone on our external lobby team? 
I will be out of the office starting  11/09/2000 and will not return until 11/27/2000. 
Per my voicemail, attached is a proposed ""statement"" to open the Executive Committee meeting on Monday. 
depelschen children's home dinner 
Attached are FERC reports 
Here is Part I of the Staff report (on Calfornia). 