No response yet.  I have a call into Credit to discuss what entities we want 
Global counterparty is trying to locate online corporate search companies that can check company names in Europe and Canada.  In the U.S. we can access this information via Westmate in Westlaw.  Are either of you aware of any online search company, or can you direct me to someone who may be aware of an online search company, for Canada and Europe?  If there are no online search companies available, is there a reasonably priced corporate search company that can verify this information for us? 
We have received the executed First Amendment to ISDA Master Agreement dated as of July 5, 2000.  This amendment changes the Material Adverse Change 
FYI, executed master distribution list. 
We have received the following executed documents: Consent to Assignment dated as of June 12, 2000 between Merchant Energy Group of the Americas, Inc. (""MEGA"") and ENA, wherein MEGA assigned to Morgan Stanley Capital Group, Inc.  its interest in certain financial transactions it had entered into with ENA; and Amendment to Consent to Assignment dated as of June 13, 2000 wherein  MEGA, ENA and Morgan Stanley agreed that the Transactions assigned in the above Agreement will be governed by the ISDA Master Agreement between ENA and Morgan Stanley. 
The EOL approvals for 08/15/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Tauton is ok for all products, except for financial products (it can do power).  David, when I talk about this I am never including credit derivatives unless Credit specifically tells us in their spreadsheet that this is a credit derivatives counterparty. David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/15/2000 05:32 PM 
Tana what can the Taunton Municipal Light Plant trade? Is it the same as Huntsville? 
The EOL approvals for 08/14/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
When you say they are approved, do you mean they are approved for all products, or just Australian products? David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/15/2000 05:28 PM 
Powecor and Aloca Australia  are approved 
The EOL approvals for 08/11/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
Unbeknownst to me, it had been returned to me and was buried under stacks of papers on my desk.  I'll get it out today. Leslie Hansen 08/16/2000 08:19 AM 
Tana: What's the status of this ETA letter agreement.  I just got an e-mail from the Allegheny attorney, and she has apparently not received.  I'll forward you her e-mail if you wouldn't mind responding with the status. Leslie 
Tana: Okay to execute. Thanks, Leslie 
Looks good. I will approve hardcopy of this. Dave Leslie Hansen@ECT 07/31/2000 11:58 AM 
Dave: Attached please find the ETA letter I prepared for Allegheny Energy.  Please review and approve.  Let me know if you have any questions. Leslie 
1.  What is the heading styed ""Derivatives Trading""?  I think that should be ""Credit Derivatives"". 2.  Move ""Gas Trading"" and ""Emerging Markets Trading"" to the end of the list, since I never have any responses from those groups. 3.  I need you to fix the boxes where I click for approved, ""yes"", ""yes, with Can you get these done ASAP, since I am sure by now you have gotten your rush from last week done.... 
Nella Cappalleto has early retired from the Calgary office.  In your distribution memos for signed documents, copies of Canadian agreements were previously sent to Nella.  Please send them to Peter Keohane's new assistant, 
Do you know who is this fellow and why is he sending me a list? 
Bradley Diebner@ECT 08/15/2000 05:19 PM 
The EOL approvals for 08/15/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Thanks to you and Scott for your help, I appreciate it!  I hope all is going 
Mike, Checking on the status of getting Stephanie Panus, a new paralegal in our Group, full edit access to the referenced database. Also, we need to get some additional people full edit access:  Matt Dawson, who just started in London Legal, and David Minns, a lawyer in our Australia office.  Can you let me and each of these people know when they have access. 
Camille, you're not waiting on anything from me to resolve the ""Bakersfield Californian Issue"", are you? 
Status of Pending Global Reports: CP 072200 with Ks.xls   review completed CP 080300 with Ks.xls  review completed CP 080700 with Ks.xls  review completed CP 080800 with Ks.xls  review completed CP 080900 with Ks.xls  review completed CP 081100 with Ks.xls  review completed CP 072500 -- PENDING RESOLUTION of Bakersfield Californian issue Attached below is complete Global information for the following ClickPaper Credit Responses: Please let me know if you have any questions. Note:  Stacey Richardson will handle inquiries in my absence.  You may reach her at x3-0569. Thank you, Karen x3-0605 
With respect to the attached list, a few things: 1.  With respect to Dynegy Power Marketing, my records reflect that they are approved for all products (including financial & power).  Can you let me know if your approvals reflect otherwise? 2.  With respect to Nicor Gas Company and Northern Illinois Gas Company: Northern Illinois Gas Company should be restyled to be ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"".  We have just received the executed ISDA Master with this entity and that is how the counterparty directed us to set the master up.  Nicor Gas Company appears to be their physical gas trading arm, so that entity name should be left alone. I haven't forgotten the 8/11/00 list, I am waiting to hear back from Australia about a question. 
The EOL approvals for 08/16/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Do you want to be on the distribution to see the daily Excel Spreadsheets when they have Japanese counterparties for approval?  For online, what I daily do is send my new counterparty lists to each of the relevant trading legal groups.  Each of the legal trading groups has one day to respond or I will consider their products approved for the counterparties on that day's list.  I have been giving the approvals for Japanese counterparties. Currently, I am approving them for all products (with the only restriction being on bandwidth, where they can only trade the US segment, which happens to be the only bandwidth products we have opened online so far!).   I understand that when we offer Japanese based products the approval process may get more complex. Saying all that, do you want to be on the list for the daily approvals, or do 
Can you put this on my calendar.  Thanks. Taffy Milligan 08/16/2000 06:47 PM 
Please be advised that the Forms Meeting has to be re-scheduled.  It looks like Friday, 8/18, at 2:00 p.m. may work.  Please confirm at your earliest convenience that this is ok. Taffy P.S.  I will send out a confirmation with Room No. when I hear from everyone. 
Good Morning Everyone, The Swap Group will hold a Forms Meeting to discuss potential form changes to our financial trading forms on: 
Each legal trading group here in Houston checks on a relevant counterparty's ability to trade its products.  So far the only physical trading area where a governmental counterparty appears to have problems is the power trading group where there are licensing requirements that may or may not have been obtained to trade power.  For financial trading we do have to inquire into the relevant governmental entities' authority to enter into derivative transactions.  In order to do that we look at statutory authority, any relevant local regulations, investment policities, etc., in addition to obtaining legal opinions on the subject, and with some counterparties hiring outside counsel to advise us.  For most governmental entities if we do not have an ISDA Master in place and have already done such due diligence, I will not be approving them to trade financial products. As far as the financial test, for the US based counterparty list, I check with Credit on every counterparty to determine whether they meet the US eligible swap participant standards.  As I'm sure you know, for most plain vanilla corporates and partnerships this means having total assets of $10mm or a net worth of $1mm.  Pretty much, if I am turning down a counterparty to trade financial it will be because they do not meet the ESP test or they are a governmental or quasi-governmental entity. If what you are telling me is that the Australian counterparties have to meet a $6mm asset test to trade any products, then I will add this to my daily inquiry to Credit and turn down Australian counterparties if they do not meet this test.  At your direction I will handle this in this manner.  How would you like me to proceed? David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/16/2000 07:58 PM 
Is this an incorporated entity? I assume its authority to trade a range of products has been checked out? In Australia this assumption can not be made for government  entities Under our licencing requirements we need to make reasonable enquiries that a counterparty has (or is guaranted by someone who has) atleast USD6 million in assets. Can this assumption be made? 
Tauton is ok for all products, except for financial products (it can do power).  David, when I talk about this I am never including credit derivatives unless Credit specifically tells us in their spreadsheet that this is a credit derivatives counterparty. David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/15/2000 05:32 PM 
Tana what can the Taunton Municipal Light Plant trade? Is it the same as Huntsville? 
The EOL approvals for 08/14/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Justin, I approved Powercor to trade before I left last night.  By copy of this email to our online team here, I will be notifying them of your concern that this counterparty is opened to trade when you arrive at work today in Australia. Justin.Timothy@ect.enron.com 08/17/2000 12:24 AM 
Tana, Thanks for waiting around this morning for David Minns. I'm not sure if you got to hear his message before you left however Powercor should now be good to go. I would really like to have them set up and trading by tomorrow morning Sydney time so I would appreciate it if you could send me the spreadsheet first chance you get. Thanks for your help, Justin 
John, Here is the list from yesterday.  On a going forward basis I will just add you to my distribution, and there will usually be no message from me unless we have a RUSH approval or some other info I need to communicate. 
The EOL approvals for 08/16/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
The online team called and they would like a rush approval for Duke Energy Merchants LLC.  In particular, this counterparty would like to trade European physical coal.  Please let me know as soon as possible whether you have any 
Just to keep you in the loop on things.  Lee sent me the following email and I'm following up trying to figure this out.  I spoke to Debbie Brackett in our Credit Dept. when I got back from London and she seemed to be aware of the contract Lee has been talking about.  I'm trying to get a copy of the agreement from Debbie so I can figure this out.  I'll keep you posted. How are things going there?  Same old grind?! 
Tana I am sorry that I was unable to meet you whilst you were in London and I guess we had some unfinished business with regard to the United Gas / Utilicorp Co-signature issue. I have now found the e-mail that I had previously sent to Houston with regard to the inability of certain US entities, including Utilicorp, to issue a guarantee for overseas entities unless they obtain FERC and the state regulators approval beforehand. United gas have now changed their name to Aquila Energy Ltd and are looking to expand in to power in the UK as well as gas and power throughout Europe. Therefore, I expect our level of business is likely to increase in the near future. It is now even more important that we either obtain a guarantee from Utilicorp, or, ensure that if Utilicorp co- sign any agreement that it is enforceable. I would be very grateful if you could a) confirm that it is not possible for Utilicorp (and for that matter Entergy) top parent  to issue a parent company guarantee without obtaining authorisation form various regulatory bodies. b) that obtaining the signature of an authorised officer of Utilicorp on each agreement (or master) is enforceable. Please feel free to give me a call on 44 171 316 6755 if you would like to discuss further. Many thanks Lee 
Bill Many thanks. You are correct, it does have something to do with the international operations only. The way Entergy explained the situation, there was some sort of Act 'The 1935 Public Utility Holding Company Act -section 53 or 58 I believe -   which says that you have to be own adjacent utilities (adjacent States?) to be able to issue guarantees in respect of international operations (very strange!). In other words, if the company owns utilities that are not in adjacent states, as is the case of 'Entergy', then the utility has to segregate their business between domestic and non domestic business, thus the domestic assets cannot be used as security / guarantee for the international assets. Whilst I do not have any reason to doubt what Entergy say, I would like some confirmation that there is no way to by-pass this Act. Is there someone in legal Houston that you could run this by? Appreciate your help. Many thanks and regards Lee William S Bradford 01/10/98 02:06 
Lee, I have no knowledge of any regulatory reasons why Entergy Corp can not provide the guaranty.  We have a guaranty from Entergy Corp. covering Entergy Power Marketing Corp.  Perhaps it has something to do with international operations only. Let Kelly, Tracy or I know if you need any details on the existing guaranties or any help talking with Entergy in the U.S. Bill Lee Munden 09/30/98 01:43 PM 
Bill I am currently talking to Entergy Trading & Marketing Ltd in the UK with regard to both physical gas sales and financial power trades. I have requested a Parent Company Guarantee from Entergy Corp but have been advised that this in not available due to regulatory reasons but they are prepared to provide a guarantee from Entergy Power Development Corp which holds their overseas generation assets. Whilst the proposed guarantor has some degree of financial substance, it would only support restricted short term trades and as this entity is not rated, does not lend itself easily to MAC language in the contract. I would be grateful if you could confirm whether there are such regulations that would prevent Entergy Corp from providing us with a guarantee to support this UK entity. Many thanks Lee 
Keep me posted on what you find out from this corporate search company.  I'd be interested to see what prices we can work out.  I am also going to contact Kate Cole and see if she uses anyone special.  If Enron Corp. does and they have negotiated any special rates, maybe we can piggyback off of it.  I'll keep you posted. 
Tana - hope this helps. Regards Meagan 
No problema! Robert Bruce@ENRON Sent by: Robert Bruce@ENRON 08/17/2000 09:14 AM 
per our discussion if you integrate this into your existing exchange trading report, or if you do a separate one for ag trading, could you put my on the distribution on whatever report has the ag activity -- thanks, Bob 
David, Mark Taylor asked me to talk to you about getting your ISDA Masters inputted into our Financial Trading Database.  This databse is the central master database where we keep records of the financial agreements in either draft form or that have been executed.  London currently updates this database to manage  its (and Singapore's) financial contracts and I would like to get the Australian agreements plugged into the system. This database serves a number of purposes.  First, it is our core memory of contract negotiations.  Anyone in Legal and Credit around the world can take a look at this database and determine who we have entered into contract with and what negotiation issues may be at issue.  It is critical as we become a global trading company that we are consistent in the legal positions we take on these financial contracts.  For instance, it would be quite problematic if someone in Houston was negotiating a contract with an ISDA counterparty and asserted that a certain position was critical, if we find out a lawyer in another office was negotiating with the same counterparty and gave on the same position the day before.  We need to make a somewhat coordinated effort on the counterparty front. In addition, with so many masters and so many counterparties there is just no way to keep track of what we have said or done unless we have a database. Further, we use the information in the database to respond to inside auditing, reporting and insurance inquiries. For online trading, I check the database to see if we have a financial master agreement and what trading restrictions we may or may not have in place. Global contracts uses this database to confirm their financial contract records and approval for online trading. For both Houston and London we use the database to communicate with our Clients, whether traders or  back office support people.  Employees outside legal have  limited view access only to see all the information except the confidential Legal and Credit comments.  They have no edit capabilities.  The database also has some reporting functions that we and London Legal have found helpful. You should have gotten my email to Mike Neves, out database coordinator requesting full edit access for you.  It usually takes a few days.  Once you get access maybe you could find some time to surf the database, and we can figure out how to get your ISDA data inputted.. Are you coming to the ENA Legal Conference in October?  That would be a good 
Mark Taylor just heard that Edmund is very sick and has been out for quite awhile.  What's the scoop?  Is he in the hospital, will he continue to be out, is there someplace we can send flowers?  Can you let me know what's 
Per my conversation with Frank, this counterparty wants to trade weather online.  However, they have the old style ERMS Master in place which only covers energy commodities.  I spoke to Scott Tackett on the Confirm Desk, and he is going to add language to the confirm that puts the trades under the master agreement.   I also spoke to Tanya Rohauer in Credit and she is going to move this counterparty up on the list for an ISDA replacement master. 
Can you please have the Password Application amended to set up the counterparty as I have indicated.  Then tell Global Contracts it is done. 
Can you please have Tana clarify if the counterparty wishes to have a new CP name set up as Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company (which it sounds like) or if they will make financial trades under Northern Illinois Gas Company (since Nicor Gas Company is the physical trading entity).  We still cannot report (or even SET UP) the contract until we know which CP name is correct.  Until then, the 08/14/00 EOL report will still be outstanding. Thanks, Stacey Enron North America Corp. 
With respect to the attached list, a few things: 1.  With respect to Dynegy Power Marketing, my records reflect that they are approved for all products (including financial & power).  Can you let me know if your approvals reflect otherwise? 2.  With respect to Nicor Gas Company and Northern Illinois Gas Company: Northern Illinois Gas Company should be restyled to be ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"".  We have just received the executed ISDA Master with this entity and that is how the counterparty directed us to set the master up.  Nicor Gas Company appears to be their physical gas trading arm, so that entity name should be left alone. I haven't forgotten the 8/11/00 list, I am waiting to hear back from Australia about a question. 
Per Leslie Hansen, the name above is the way the Town of Braintree, Massachusetts is setting up their power contract, so this is the way we 
I have already responded in my initial email.  For whatever reason, the counterparty trades physical gas as ""Nicor Gas Company"".  They trade financial as indicated below.    It is now up to EOL to get back with the counterparty and get them to amend the Password Applcation. Bridgette Anderson@ENRON 08/17/2000 11:04 AM 
Could you please help us by addressing the question posed by Stacey Richardson below? Thanks. Bridgette 
Can you please have Tana clarify if the counterparty wishes to have a new CP name set up as Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company (which it sounds like) or if they will make financial trades under Northern Illinois Gas Company (since Nicor Gas Company is the physical trading entity).  We still cannot report (or even SET UP) the contract until we know which CP name is correct.  Until then, the 08/14/00 EOL report will still be outstanding. Thanks, Stacey Enron North America Corp. 
With respect to the attached list, a few things: 1.  With respect to Dynegy Power Marketing, my records reflect that they are approved for all products (including financial & power).  Can you let me know if your approvals reflect otherwise? 2.  With respect to Nicor Gas Company and Northern Illinois Gas Company: Northern Illinois Gas Company should be restyled to be ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"".  We have just received the executed ISDA Master with this entity and that is how the counterparty directed us to set the master up.  Nicor Gas Company appears to be their physical gas trading arm, so that entity name should be left alone. I haven't forgotten the 8/11/00 list, I am waiting to hear back from Australia about a question. 
We have received the First Amendment to ISDA Master Agreement dated  as of July 1, 2000 (""Amendment"").  This Amendment (1) amends Counterparty's Threshold under the Credit Suport Annex, (2) exempts certain Transactions when determining ""Exposure"" under the ISDA Master Agreement, and (3) changes the Fixed Price with respect to the ""Exempt Transactions"" reflected in the Amendment. 
There appears to be confusion over who and what products we should be trading with these entities. We have an ISDA Master Agreement in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company.  This is a new master.  If the counterparty is not set up this way it need to be. Physical gas has a master in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company. There is no master agreement in place with Nicor Gas Company and the only trading being done with this entity is online gas trading. The issue that needs to be resolved is whether we want to trade gas under both Northern Illinois Gas Company and Nicor Gas Company.  Frank Davis will resolve this issue with Tom Moran in Credit and Stacy Dickson with physical gas Legal, and they will let us know who we should be trading with. When we hear back from them we can finally resolve what counterparty names we want to set up and get back to the counterparty if we have not received the correct Password Application to match out intended trading partners. 
Per the memo below, we are looking for European and Canadian corporate search companies, and it occurred to me that you may already have someone you use. Do you have any recommendations?  Thanks for your help! 
Global counterparty is trying to locate online corporate search companies that can check company names in Europe and Canada.  In the U.S. we can access this information via Westmate in Westlaw.  Are either of you aware of any online search company, or can you direct me to someone who may be aware of an online search company, for Canada and Europe?  If there are no online search companies available, is there a reasonably priced corporate search company that can verify this information for us? I appreciate your help. 
I approved this counterparty with US EOL this morning to trade all coal including European coal. Edmund Cooper 08/17/2000 04:09 PM 
Fine from my perspective.  Tana will let me know (please) if there are any problems [N.B. this product is currently a physically settled product]. Thanks, Edmund 
Are you two ok with a US company being able to trade European Coal?  They currently can trade US Coal. thanks, Lara 
All Following a request from Kirt Gengenbach of Duke Energy Merchants LLC to enable them to access the European coal products via EOL, I can confirm that Credit approve execute access for these products without collateral and tenor of 36 months. Please arrange for them to have access ASAP and let me know when this has been done as the trader is waiting to do deals ? Thanks Lee 
Edmund, I heard yesterday you have been out for quite a while sick.  I had no idea. 
Per the email below, it appears to me physical gas should be traded only under Nicor Gas Company and financial through the dba.  Do you agree? 
Per my conversation with Nicor Gas Company's attorney, Northern Illinois Gas Company changed its name to Nicor Gas Company. Therefore, Nicor Gas Company is the only entity that all the deals needs to be booked under. However, the attorney also agreed to the fact that they do use the name ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" eversince the name change happened. He said they had been using both names ""contractually"" and interchangeably even though it is all just ONE company, one state registered company. I'm currently waiting on name change documents, however this is what it looks like thats going to happen: The main HQ company would end up being NICOR GAS COMPANY with all the trades/contracts/deals being merged into one record. However, if need be we could have a Tradename set up as ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" since this is how the company does business as, in some cases. Nicor's legal Dept could be reached at (630) 983-8676 for any further clarifications in this matter. Adnan Patel Global Counterparty x58335 
There appears to be confusion over who and what products we should be trading with these entities. We have an ISDA Master Agreement in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company.  This is a new master.  If the counterparty is not set up this way it need to be. Physical gas has a master in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company. There is no master agreement in place with Nicor Gas Company and the only trading being done with this entity is online gas trading. The issue that needs to be resolved is whether we want to trade gas under both Northern Illinois Gas Company and Nicor Gas Company.  Frank Davis will resolve this issue with Tom Moran in Credit and Stacy Dickson with physical gas Legal, and they will let us know who we should be trading with. When we hear back from them we can finally resolve what counterparty names we want to set up and get back to the counterparty if we have not received the correct Password Application to match out intended trading partners. Sorry for all the confusion this is causing.  I am confused too. 
I had a hernia two years ago.  It's not fun.  Mine didn't sound as bad as your does, though.  You haven't been having a good year.  I hope things improve. Edmund Cooper 08/17/2000 04:22 PM 
Not terminal - at least I hope not!  I have a hiatus hernia which has been giving me a lot of difficulties recently. I've been to hospital for a variety of test; some not so yucky, so a it yucky (tubes down the nose and into the stomach!). I'm seeing my specialist tomorrow to get all the results and determine a suitable course of action - I'm getting a bit fed up swallowing pills that aren't really doing that much anyway.  I'll keep you updated - but don't worry I'll be back on full form in the hopefully not too distant future. Edmund 
Edmund, I heard yesterday you have been out for quite a while sick.  I had no idea. What's the scoop?  Should I be worried? 
It is not clear to me what Braintree's should remain open.  Will we shut down this Town of Braintree and only keep open Braintree Electric Light 
Is this OK with you for yur financial agreement? 
OK, guys, based on Adnan's information from the counterparty, all contracts under Northern Illinois Gas Company will be changed (via name overlay) to Nicor Gas Company once Adnan has received the proper name change documentation.   Since no changes have been made in GCP to correct the HQ company and trade name relationships, the recent ISDA contract was set up under Nicor Gas Company.  Once these changes are made in GCP, the contract can be changed to the trade name if still needed at that time. I apologize for all the confusion and hope this helps all parties concerned. Thanks, Stacey Adnan Patel@ENRON on 08/17/2000 04:20:24 PM 
Per my conversation with Nicor Gas Company's attorney, Northern Illinois Gas Company changed its name to Nicor Gas Company. Therefore, Nicor Gas Company is the only entity that all the deals needs to be booked under. However, the attorney also agreed to the fact that they do use the name ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" eversince the name change happened. He said they had been using both names ""contractually"" and interchangeably even though it is all just ONE company, one state registered company. I'm currently waiting on name change documents, however this is what it looks like thats going to happen: The main HQ company would end up being NICOR GAS COMPANY with all the trades/contracts/deals being merged into one record. However, if need be we could have a Tradename set up as ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" since this is how the company does business as, in some cases. Nicor's legal Dept could be reached at (630) 983-8676 for any further clarifications in this matter. Adnan Patel Global Counterparty x58335 
There appears to be confusion over who and what products we should be trading with these entities. We have an ISDA Master Agreement in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company.  This is a new master.  If the counterparty is not set up this way it need to be. Physical gas has a master in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company. There is no master agreement in place with Nicor Gas Company and the only trading being done with this entity is online gas trading. The issue that needs to be resolved is whether we want to trade gas under both Northern Illinois Gas Company and Nicor Gas Company.  Frank Davis will resolve this issue with Tom Moran in Credit and Stacy Dickson with physical gas Legal, and they will let us know who we should be trading with. When we hear back from them we can finally resolve what counterparty names we want to set up and get back to the counterparty if we have not received the correct Password Application to match out intended trading partners. Sorry for all the confusion this is causing.  I am confused too. 
Doug, I'm passing this on to Mark Taylor for review. Douglas S Friedman 08/17/2000 05:34 PM 
Tana: Would greatly appreciate your urgent review. The CIO of Eastman hopes to visit Houston on the 24th or 25th, pending the conclusion of the Nondisclosure Agreement,  to take our discussions to the next level of detail. If you have any questions, please call me at X-37377. Doug 
The EOL approvals for 08/17/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
In addition to granting full edit access to David Minns in our Australia office, he has also required that Alison Keogh and Rob McGrory in his office be granted access.  Can you let them know when they have full edit 
I think if once you get full access  you could have your assistant plug in the required data for on each ISDA Master in place or draft you have out to counterparties.  When you come here I would like to spend just a little time going over some of the data and the reporting funtions.  I am going to open an Enron counterparty called short name ""Enron Australia"" and that should be the code name you should use.  Please do not change the entries on any of the Houston or London based counterparties. David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/17/2000 06:31 PM 
I fully endorse Mark's suggestion to load up our ISDAs. A worldwide data dase of this nature is a valuable resource.  I have access to the data base and refer it. Getting our contracts on is on my to do list. What is the best way forward.   Yes I will be over in October, I fact I will staying a month. However, if there is anything we can do to get info loaded up sooner? We are most willing to put in the resources. When access is being granted could it also be given to my Admin assistant Alison Keogh and also Rob McGrory who is also working under my direction on ISDA documentation. Thanks for taking the initative on this matter. 
David, Mark Taylor asked me to talk to you about getting your ISDA Masters inputted into our Financial Trading Database.  This databse is the central master database where we keep records of the financial agreements in either draft form or that have been executed.  London currently updates this database to manage  its (and Singapore's) financial contracts and I would like to get the Australian agreements plugged into the system. This database serves a number of purposes.  First, it is our core memory of contract negotiations.  Anyone in Legal and Credit around the world can take a look at this database and determine who we have entered into contract with and what negotiation issues may be at issue.  It is critical as we become a global trading company that we are consistent in the legal positions we take on these financial contracts.  For instance, it would be quite problematic if someone in Houston was negotiating a contract with an ISDA counterparty and asserted that a certain position was critical, if we find out a lawyer in another office was negotiating with the same counterparty and gave on the same position the day before.  We need to make a somewhat coordinated effort on the counterparty front. In addition, with so many masters and so many counterparties there is just no way to keep track of what we have said or done unless we have a database. Further, we use the information in the database to respond to inside auditing, reporting and insurance inquiries. For online trading, I check the database to see if we have a financial master agreement and what trading restrictions we may or may not have in place. Global contracts uses this database to confirm their financial contract records and approval for online trading. For both Houston and London we use the database to communicate with our Clients, whether traders or  back office support people.  Employees outside legal have  limited view access only to see all the information except the confidential Legal and Credit comments.  They have no edit capabilities.  The database also has some reporting functions that we and London Legal have found helpful. You should have gotten my email to Mike Neves, out database coordinator requesting full edit access for you.  It usually takes a few days.  Once you get access maybe you could find some time to surf the database, and we can figure out how to get your ISDA data inputted.. Are you coming to the ENA Legal Conference in October?  That would be a good time for me to do a full review of this database with you. 
All my students are doing so well!  I'm just so proud (sniff, sniff..)! Peter Keohane 08/18/2000 09:15 AM =20 
Interesting. 
 We are pleased to announce that we have appointed Michael Brown as Chief=20 Operating Officer of Enron Europe.=20 Michael joined Enron=01,s London legal department in 1995 and has played a = key=20 role in the success of many of our large commercial ventures since then.  I= n=20 July 1999, he was made Enron Europe=01,s General Counsel.  Replacing Michae= l in=20 the General Counsel role will be Mark Evans who joined our legal department= =20 in 1995. Please join us in congratulating Michael and Mark in their new roles. 
He's a bum! Peter Keohane 08/18/2000 09:53 AM 
All except Chapman. 
Attached are the Clickpaper Credit Approvals for 8/18/00. Regards, 
Per our conversation, I am attaching a proposed form of Unanimous Consent of the Board of Directors of Brant-Allen Industries, Inc. (""Company"") that would expand the Consent of Directors given to us when we executed the ISDA Master Agreement in 1998 to do more than just the single trade referenced in that resolution.  If the enclosed meets with your approval, please have it executed by the directors of the Company and return a copy to me for our files.  If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me at (713) 853-3399. In addition, can you confirm one thing for me.  There is a note in our file that says documents for the Company require two signatures.  I looked at the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws you provided us and find no such signatory requirement.  Is this note an error? 
The EOL approvals for 08/18/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
FYI! 
Office of the Chairman =01&Enron has become aware that Company employees have been solicited for= =20 participation in =01&gifting clubs.=018  These clubs appear to be illegal p= yramid=20 schemes.  If you are approached about joining a club, but aren=01,t sure if= it=01,s=20 an illegal gifting club, contact the Better Business Bureau or your persona= l=20 legal counsel.   Employees should not in any way or manner associate Enron= =20 Corp., its affiliated companies or Enron management with the type of clubs= =20 described above. Please be advised that use of the Company=01,s premises without management= =01,s=20 prior approval or use of any of the Company=01,s communication services=20 equipment (i.e. email, fax machines, telephones, etc.) for non-Enron busine= ss=20 related ventures is against Company policy.""=20 
I left a message for both Molly and Brad Diebner and neither has returned my calls. Sara Shackleton 08/21/2000 08:24 AM 
Tana:  Have you responded to either Greg or Molly?  Please call.  Sara 
I understand Greg Penman has inquired for the same.  I would be happy to coordinate amongst us and informed Greg accordingly. Thank you Molly Molly Harris 08/18/2000 01:58 PM 
Tana Is it possible to get electronic file for the Enron North America and Peoples Energy Corporation ISDA?  Is it in Word?  I am trying to get our new JV, Midwest Energy Hub, to utilize our format for the template for MEH. Thanks Molly a.huprikar@pecorp.com on 08/17/2000 03:48:36 PM 
Molly, Could you send me an electronic version of the ISDA that was signed between ENA and PEC. I understand from our attorney that we did not work with an electronic version, only a hard copy. In order to create an ISDA template for MEH, I need the electronic version. Thanks Aparna ---------------------------------------------------------------- The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.   If you received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from any computer. 
Per your request... 
Attached is the link that will allow you access to referenced database. Please note, that we have just upgraded the database to add the ISDA definitions, branch offices approved for trading, and market disruption provisions.  This information should be inputted for the new master swap agreements on a going forward basis, but we still need to go back and repopulate the data for the existing master swap agreements. Also, FYI, the ""See"" drop down is our nickname for the name changes and mergers reference.  If an item is filled in for that entity it should show you any prior or new names for the counterparty. If there is anyone else who would like the link, please let me know and I will forward it to them. We hope you find the information provided in this database helpful. Link --> 
Do you know what to do here? 
Susan/Tana, We have recently traded a deal on Enron Online in which the entity offering the trade was ENA and the entity entering the trade was EPMI Long Term Hedge (Power group hedging with ENA).  This is currently booked as RMT vs. EPMI Long Term Hedge.  Can we send out a confirmation based on ISDA terms since this is an Enron subsidiary per Global Counterparty?  I'm assuming this is just like doing a deal with Enron Global Exploration and Production, EES or ECT International, but let me know if I'm incorrect. Thanks, Joe 
I'm helping Alan Aronowitz out with a presentation he has to give on the global energy markets and I was thinking that Paul recently did a presentation and maybe there might be some good slides on the European markets that I can pull in.  Can you locate, or find someone to locate, Paul's presentation, and email it to me. I hope you get out of work at a decent hour today.  I bet you could use a beer with all the late nights you've been putting in.  How's the house going? 
I guess it was more like 25 minutes instead of 5 minutes, but here you go ... 
Per, Did the link work?  If you would like me to go over the information in the database with you give me a call at x33399. Per Sekse 08/21/2000 08:54 AM 
Sara suggested I email you and request access to the Financial Trading Agreement Database so I can better track the status of ISDA negotiations with my hedge fund clients. Can take care of that for me? Thanks. Per 
Call me at 853-3399 if you have any questions. 
The EOL approvals for 08/21/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
Is this forever, or just for the week? Leslie Hansen 08/22/2000 09:14 AM 
Tana: Beginning this week, Shari will reply to EOL credit approval lists.  I will be out after Tuesday of next week through Friday, Sept. 8.  Will you add Shari to the distribution list effective as soon as possible so that she receives the list tomorrow. Thanks, Leslie 
Should I take David off? Leslie Hansen 08/22/2000 09:14 AM 
Tana: Beginning this week, Shari will reply to EOL credit approval lists.  I will be out after Tuesday of next week through Friday, Sept. 8.  Will you add Shari to the distribution list effective as soon as possible so that she receives the list tomorrow. Thanks, Leslie 
We have received the executed Letter Agreement dated July 31, 2000 amending the Electronic Trading Agreement with the referenced counterparty.  Copies 
On an ISDA I am reviewing, credit has asked that all indebtedness of the Canadian counterparty to its affiliates be subordinated to us (in this case ECC).  Does anyone have access to a Canadian form of subordination agreement?  I imagine that a fairly bare-bones form would suffice.  Thanks -- 
Enron North America's Annual Legal Conference is coming up quickly! This year's Conference is scheduled for Thursday, October 5th and Friday, October 6th at The Woodlands Resort & Conference Center.  The program will commence at approximately 1:00 p.m. on Thursday and conclude at approximately 12:00 noon on Friday.  The agenda for this year's conference will be circulated shortly. The Conference Center is located approximately 30 miles north of downtown Houston.  Maps will be circulated with the agenda. We would like to get a headcount as soon as possible in order to complete planning for accommodations and transportation.  Attendees from outside Houston should make their own arrangements for travel to Houston. Please complete the attached RSVP form and return it to Linda Noske (EB3814), by fax at (713) 646-3490, or by e-mail at Linda.J.Noske@enron.com. 
At Sara's request, attached is a draft of the blackline of the referenced master. 
I am getting ready to fax you the Cancellation Agreement which has been executed by an officer of ECT.  I have two originally executed copies which I would like to overnight to you for execution and I need your address.  Can 
The EOL approvals for 08/22/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Susan Bailey, the paralegal working on this master, spoke to the Company after receiving these emails.  They faxed to her a copy of the assumed  name certificate wherein Northern Illinois Gas Company transacts business under the name Nicor Gas Company.  Per her conversations they have not changed their name, they are only operating under the assumed name Nicor Gas Company.  Being so, the online account would have to be renamed as Northern Illinois Gas company dba Nicor Gas Company.  Per my conversation with Stacy Dickson, a physical gas lawyer, they still transact physical gas under their master with Northern Illinois Gas Company.  I will have a copy of the assumed name certificate walked down to Adnan.  If we are all in agreement after this, it seems like we need two counterparty names ""Northern Illinois Gas Company"" and ""Northern Illinois Gas Company dba Nicor Gas Company"".  Upon receipt of the assumed name certificate, please confirm your agreement and I will contact Credit and the Online team. Stacey Richardson 08/17/2000 04:49 PM 
OK, guys, based on Adnan's information from the counterparty, all contracts under Northern Illinois Gas Company will be changed (via name overlay) to Nicor Gas Company once Adnan has received the proper name change documentation.   Since no changes have been made in GCP to correct the HQ company and trade name relationships, the recent ISDA contract was set up under Nicor Gas Company.  Once these changes are made in GCP, the contract can be changed to the trade name if still needed at that time. I apologize for all the confusion and hope this helps all parties concerned. Thanks, Stacey Adnan Patel@ENRON on 08/17/2000 04:20:24 PM 
Per my conversation with Nicor Gas Company's attorney, Northern Illinois Gas Company changed its name to Nicor Gas Company. Therefore, Nicor Gas Company is the only entity that all the deals needs to be booked under. However, the attorney also agreed to the fact that they do use the name ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" eversince the name change happened. He said they had been using both names ""contractually"" and interchangeably even though it is all just ONE company, one state registered company. I'm currently waiting on name change documents, however this is what it looks like thats going to happen: The main HQ company would end up being NICOR GAS COMPANY with all the trades/contracts/deals being merged into one record. However, if need be we could have a Tradename set up as ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" since this is how the company does business as, in some cases. Nicor's legal Dept could be reached at (630) 983-8676 for any further clarifications in this matter. Adnan Patel Global Counterparty x58335 
There appears to be confusion over who and what products we should be trading with these entities. We have an ISDA Master Agreement in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company.  This is a new master.  If the counterparty is not set up this way it need to be. Physical gas has a master in place with Northern Illinois Gas Company. There is no master agreement in place with Nicor Gas Company and the only trading being done with this entity is online gas trading. The issue that needs to be resolved is whether we want to trade gas under both Northern Illinois Gas Company and Nicor Gas Company.  Frank Davis will resolve this issue with Tom Moran in Credit and Stacy Dickson with physical gas Legal, and they will let us know who we should be trading with. When we hear back from them we can finally resolve what counterparty names we want to set up and get back to the counterparty if we have not received the correct Password Application to match out intended trading partners. Sorry for all the confusion this is causing.  I am confused too. 
Attached is a picture of baby Davies.  What a cutie! 
- att1.htm - 05cc3104.jpg - 05cc3106.jpg - 05cc3108.jpg 
He is absolutely adorable.  What a sweet smile! Derek Davies 08/23/2000 09:16 AM 
- att1.htm - 05cc3104.jpg - 05cc3106.jpg - 05cc3108.jpg 
Leslie, Theresa Mandola with EOL called and the referenced counterparty called her and is already trading gas with us and would like to start trading power online.  I looked in my database and we have them shut down for power.  Is 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am attaching a clean and blacklined draft of the Schedule and Credit Support Annex to the referenced ISDA Master Agreement.  Can you please provide or confirm the following information:  (1) since the Counterparty is Australian, I have added the Counterparty's ACN Number to the document.  Can you please provide that number to us.  (2) Can you take a look at the definition of ""Obligors"" in the Credit Support Annex and let us know if it references the correct Obligors under the Loan Agreement. Since I will not be in the office this afternoon, can you please call Sara at (713) 853-5620 or Stephanie Panus at (713) 345-3249 with your comments. Thanks for your attention herewith. 
Per my conversation with Leslie, it is OK to open this counterparty for all US physical power. 
Leslie, Theresa Mandola with EOL called and the referenced counterparty called her and is already trading gas with us and would like to start trading power online.  I looked in my database and we have them shut down for power.  Is 
You both may already by aware of this, but the online team has contacted me and it is their desire to have the Japanese & Australian products also offered out of the U.S. by Enron North America.  They would continue to be offered by their current companies, ""Enron Australia"" and ""EnronJapan"", but they want the products sold ""24 hours a day"" and I guess to do this they would be offered also by Enron North America.  Do you see any legal issues from your side with a your Japanese or Australia products being offered by 
I can't say it enough...you are the best! Peter Keohane Sent by: Sharon Crawford 08/23/2000 12:07 PM 
Please see the following: ""Any and all present and future debts, obligations and liabilities whatsoever of [Counterparty] which are now or hereafter owing to [Guarantor] are hereby assigned by [Guarantor] to [Enron entity].  Further, [Guarantor] acknowledges and agrees that any and all such present and future debts, obligations and liabilities of [Counterparty] which are now or hereafter owing to [Guarantor] are absolutely and unconditionally subordinated and postponed to the payment in full by [Counterparty] to [Enron entity] of all present and future debts, obligations and liabilities of [Counterparty] which are now or hereafter owing to [Enron entity], and [Guarantor] further acknowledges and agrees that if [Guarantor] receives any monies or other amounts or consideration in respect of any such debts, obligations and liabilities of [Counterparty] owing to [Guarantor], [Guarantor] will receive same in trust for, and will immediately pay same to, [Enron entity] unless and until all present and future debts, obligations and liabilities of [Counterparty] which are now or hereafter owing to [Enron entity] are paid in full and without limiting or reducing [Guarantor's] obligation to pay pursuant to [Guarantee] in any 
Here is that ""Umbrella"" guaranty we were talking about.  Why don't you print it out and then let's go over the changes that need to be made... 
Mary: Enclosed is the Counterparty form that we have come up with for Multi-Product Guarantys.  Depending upon the products that need to be covered, each Guaranty will need to be modified to make sure that it describes the proper entities and products.  I will send along the Enron form of this shortly but please pass this along to the appropriate people in the credit group. Jeff, Stacy and Harry, Are you going to change the Physical product form of Guaranty to look more like this?  Power has changed their form and it may help for us to all be consistent especially when we are asked to amend an existing Guaranty to include more products.  If you do decide to amend your form, please send the new form to credit. Thanks for everyone's input. Carol 
Per Lisa Mellencamp, can you add my name to the list of counterparties who are either bankrupt or in workout.  I understand that you will have a list by 
The EOL approvals for 08/23/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Did you get the email of the documents I sent you, soon after we spoke? michael.mulligan@americas.bnpparibas.com 08/24/2000 11:21 AM 
Good afternoon Tana; Just in case I may have mistakenly given you a wrong letter or two in my email address, I thought it best to send this note regarding the above form so that you can email to me at your convenience. Thanks much. Kind regards. ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________ Ce message et toutes les pieces jointes (ci-apres le ""message"") sont etablis a l'intention exclusive de ses destinataires et sont confidentiels. Si vous recevez ce message par erreur, merci de le detruire et d'en avertir immediatement l'expediteur. Toute utilisation de ce message non conforme a sa destination, toute diffusion ou toute publication, totale ou partielle, est interdite, sauf autorisation expresse. L'internet ne permettant pas d'assurer l'integrite de ce message, BNP PARIBAS (et ses filiales) decline(nt) toute responsabilite au titre de ce message, dans l'hypothese ou il aurait ete modifie. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- This message and any attachments (the ""message"") are intended solely for the addressees and are confidential. If you receive this message in error, please delete it and immediately notify the sender. Any use not in accord with its purpose, any dissemination or disclosure, either whole or partial, is prohibited except formal approval. The internet can not guarantee the integrity of this message. BNP PARIBAS (and its subsidiaries) shall (will) not therefore be liable for the message if modified. ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________ 
I guess it was more like 25 minutes instead of 5 minutes, but here you go ... 
The EOL approvals for 08/24/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Shari, To save you some time in the future, if a counterparty says ""declined"" on the worksheet, you don't even have to look at it at all, because it means Credit has decided not to trade with them. Shari Stack 08/24/2000 03:00 PM 
Tana: The following CPs are not authorized to trade US power products: Maguire Oil Company-  Restricted by Credit Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Co.-  Restricted by Credit Panda Energy International, Inc. - Restricted by Credit Roswell Energy, Inc. Restricted by Credit Copano Energy Services/Upper Gulf Coast L.P.- Restricted by Credit US Steel:  Not a current CP/not FERC approved *********************** Great River Energy: Will have to get back to you on this. They usually act as agent for another company and I am waiting to get info on what they want to do. Thanks, Shari 
I am forwarding a copy of Leslie's email, as a sample for you.  I input Leslie's responses in my EOL Legal Database, so I can keep track, product by product, of what we said for a counterparty, and then our rationale behind it, in case we need to reconstruct why we said ""no trading"" at a later date. If it's an ""amended"" counterparty, she will tell be whether or not she is changing an earlier approval.  Further, I put Leslie's notes about any particular contract issue in the database, like ""override letter"", ""online GTC"", or whatever.  Again, it's our memory of what we approval, and I hope with thousands of approvals out there, I know I can't remember everthing. 
Tana: None of the following CPs are approved to trade US power: Nicor Gas Company -restricted by credit Northern Illinois Gas Company - restricted by credit Sumitomo Electric Industries LTD. - not a current CP/not FERC approved Taylor Energy Company - restricted by credit ******************* Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. - no change to profile Taunton Municipal Light Plant - authorized to trade US power pursuant to on-line GTCs (no master) 
I need a quick reply on a ClickPaper counterparty below.  If I do not hear from you I will take it that it is OK. 
Tana, We are needing a quick Legal blessing for Media General today.  Tom should be emailing us today but I wanted you to know before this. Media General, Inc. 333 East Grace Street Richmond, VA CPID  79935 Let me know if you need more details. Thanks! 
This counterparty looks OK to trade all products right now.  We have the ISDA master out for signature. Camille Gerard@ENRON 08/25/2000 10:11 AM 
Tana, We are needing a quick Legal blessing for Media General today.  Tom should be emailing us today but I wanted you to know before this. Media General, Inc. 333 East Grace Street Richmond, VA CPID  79935 Let me know if you need more details. Thanks! Camille 
Souad, In connection with the confirm I sent you earlier, I am also attaching a form of fax letter for transmittal of the confirm to the Counterparty. 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of the referenced Counterparty, which guarantees the obligations of ENA under a financial confirmation.  We will need the standard executed copy.  The confirmation requires that we deliver the Guaranty within 5 days. Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
Louis, The brother of the kids downstairs is renovating a house in the Heights and needs an electrician to rewire or do a new fuse box or something.  Do you think that your electrician would want to give them a bid on the job, or do you have someone else to recommend?  They hired someone, who has in effect, taken their money and run, and their house sits, unable to proceed on the rest of the renovation work, until they can get the electric work done. 
Attached please find Deemed ISDA Confirmation and Form of Transmittal Fax to Counterparty. 
Attached are the Clickpaper Credit Approvals for 8/25/00. Regards, tm 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of the referenced Counterparty, which guarantees the obligations of ENA under a financial confirmation.  We will need the standard executed copy.  The confirmation requires that we deliver the Guaranty within 5 days. Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
It's time for our regular Friday evening email chat!  Hope your doing well. What's the scoop on your surgery? I've got a few new products showing up on my list, originating from your neck of the woods.  Specifically, we've got MG metals out of Rotterday and Japan. Are there any legal issues for my Houston based customer list, or are they OK 
There is no list for 8/21/00, since the only counterparty was a decline. I've got two metals products shut down on the above lists until I hear back from London. 
I just got a phone call from Mike Garred, a commodity trader for New Power Company.  He said they were some Enron 50/50 JV.  Whatever he needs to trade with us, LC or whatever, he's rearing to go ASAP.  He is wondering where his application is in the online process.  He is very eager to trade power & gas.  His phone no. is 853-3399.  He said his email says he's not in, but leave him a message he's checking them regularly.  His Credit person is Steve 
Per our discussion, I am attaching a sample form of ISDA Schedule and Paragraph 13.  They, of course, should be sent to the Counterparty with the ISDA Master Agreement and Credit Support Annex attached. 
The EOL approvals for 08/25/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
That job I passed on your resume to in our group, I checked, and they still haven't started interviewing people yet, since Barbara is on vacation 
The wine tasting sounds great!   I haven't been to one in awhile.  It's always good to see Hollis too.  Keep me posted... Mary Cook 08/28/2000 09:30 AM 
First,  Scott is having a wine tasting (Australian) this Wednesday at Galleria Ruggles.  I don't yet know the cost, but thought one or both of you might be interested in coming.  I am going this time, and I think Hollis is too.  Might be fun.  It is not a full dinner, just wines and appetizer type stuff. Second;  Mark Most Fridays I will need to pick up William from after care at school, requiring about a 5:30 departure for me.  Scott plans to oridnarily pick up every other day of the week.  If I have a big project etc. I will come back in with William.  However, I realize you generally want people available until 6 each day.  Hopefully, this will not cause too much trouble.  Mary 
There's a reason why you earned the title of ""Favorite Credit Person (after Bill)""...! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 02:46 PM 
Tana, Please see attached Credit W/S for HQ. Thanks Russell 
Don't you remember at Sara's party, we were talking to Bill, and telling him how you were our favorite Credit person, and he said, ""but I thought I was your favorite Credit person..."", and since he is your boss, it seems quite political (for both you and me!) that he is always #1, anyway...a girl's always got to hedge her bets...!! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 03:12 PM 
(after Bill) ??????? 
There's a reason why you earned the title of ""Favorite Credit Person (after Bill)""...! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 02:46 PM 
Tana, Please see attached Credit W/S for HQ. Thanks Russell 
It was really good talking to you the other day.  You've been on my mind for 
I can't believe a girl wouldn't call you back after a date... Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 03:30 PM 
Oh yeah, I always forget about the whole 'political' aspect, but it is an important one............, and as far as a girl always hedging her bets...........interesting I'll have to keep that one in mind next time I don't get a call back from a date. 
Don't you remember at Sara's party, we were talking to Bill, and telling him how you were our favorite Credit person, and he said, ""but I thought I was your favorite Credit person..."", and since he is your boss, it seems quite political (for both you and me!) that he is always #1, anyway...a girl's always got to hedge her bets...!! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 03:12 PM 
(after Bill) ??????? 
There's a reason why you earned the title of ""Favorite Credit Person (after Bill)""...! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 02:46 PM 
Tana, Please see attached Credit W/S for HQ. Thanks Russell 
We have received an executed Master Agreement: Type of Contract:  ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) 
You crack me up! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 03:38 PM 
Oh it's happened before, but after a brief depression period and some therapy I was OK. 
I can't believe a girl wouldn't call you back after a date... Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 03:30 PM 
Oh yeah, I always forget about the whole 'political' aspect, but it is an important one............, and as far as a girl always hedging her bets...........interesting I'll have to keep that one in mind next time I don't get a call back from a date. 
Don't you remember at Sara's party, we were talking to Bill, and telling him how you were our favorite Credit person, and he said, ""but I thought I was your favorite Credit person..."", and since he is your boss, it seems quite political (for both you and me!) that he is always #1, anyway...a girl's always got to hedge her bets...!! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 03:12 PM 
(after Bill) ??????? 
There's a reason why you earned the title of ""Favorite Credit Person (after Bill)""...! Russell Diamond 08/28/2000 02:46 PM 
Tana, Please see attached Credit W/S for HQ. Thanks Russell 
The EOL approvals for 08/28/00 are attached below. Regards, 
Even though it is pretty frequent that this does happen (1 out of 25 masters) I think it would be fine to add this into Library.doc.  I am working on a revised draft that I hope to distribute to the group, so if you have anything else you want entered, forward it on to me. Robert Bruce@ENRON Sent by: Robert Bruce@ENRON 08/28/2000 04:03 PM 
Company 11/29/99 
I do not appear to have it. Mary Cook 08/28/2000 04:25 PM 
Company 11/29/99 Do you have this file?  It was last being worked by Flynn and St. Clair. Thanks for looking.  Mary 
Oh guru of all things Canadian... I'm working on comments to an ISDA that Hydro-Quebec sent us for an affiliate, HQ Energy Services (U.S.) Inc., which is a Delaware corporation. Is there anything special about Hydro-Quebec being the Guarantor, or just the usual considerations having a governmental entity as the guarantor? By the way, I hope you're coming up for the Legal Conference.  There are many problems at Enron that need our help in getting sorted out, those kinds of 
You are a star!  When are you going to get back to Houston?  There's problems 
I'll go for that picking up the cigarettes off the floor thing, it seemed somewhat unsanitary anyway.  But if you get so wimpy that you can't survive a drink or two with your buddy down south of the border (female at that!)...well, we need to toughen you up man!  Repeat after me:  ""PARTY, 
I am coming to the conference but I am wary of your influences. No drinking, and therefore no picking up cigarettes off the floor and smoking them, can be permitted. I have not dealt directly with HQ my self in the past and I know we have entered into transactions with them ( I am not sure if we have done anyt derivatives) but I would be careful of HQ.  Not only is a HQ a governmental entity, I believe it is governed by Quebec civil law, with which us common lawers are not overly familiar.  Quebec counsel might be necessary. Peter. 
Oh guru of all things Canadian... I'm working on comments to an ISDA that Hydro-Quebec sent us for an affiliate, HQ Energy Services (U.S.) Inc., which is a Delaware corporation. Is there anything special about Hydro-Quebec being the Guarantor, or just the usual considerations having a governmental entity as the guarantor? By the way, I hope you're coming up for the Legal Conference.  There are many problems at Enron that need our help in getting sorted out, those kinds of problems that lots of margaritas seem to bring out!  I'm counting on you! 
John, no we do not have an ISDA in place with Wah Chang.  Do you want me to pass your request on to Credit? John Malowney 08/28/2000 06:21 PM 
Tana, can you answer this for me..... thanks,   John 
I don't believe we do, John. But you should check with Tana Jones in Houston.  She handles ISDAs. John Malowney 08/28/2000 01:50 PM 
Jan, do we have an ISDA with Wah Chang ??  They are owned by Allegheny Technologies. Tracy, can you start looking at their credit/financials for me ?? Thanks,   John 
My assignment related only to financial transactions.  So it would not be power deals. Melissa Ann Murphy 08/29/2000 09:04 AM 
Hello, please let me know if any of these deals are power deals.  We may need to change them in the power system (Enpower).  Thank you, Melissa 
We have received the following executed documents: Consent to Assignment dated as of June 12, 2000 between Merchant Energy Group of the Americas, Inc. (""MEGA"") and ENA, wherein MEGA assigned to Morgan Stanley Capital Group, Inc.  its interest in certain financial transactions it had entered into with ENA; and Amendment to Consent to Assignment dated as of June 13, 2000 wherein  MEGA, ENA and Morgan Stanley agreed that the Transactions assigned in the above Agreement will be governed by the ISDA Master Agreement between ENA and Morgan Stanley. Copies will be distributed. 
The list of trades was attached to the assignment.  Jeff Sorenson should have a copy down there. Melissa Ann Murphy 08/29/2000 09:38 AM 
I handle power financial transactions.  I wanted to make sure none of the deals assigned are power financial trades. Thanks, Melissa 3-1886 
My assignment related only to financial transactions.  So it would not be power deals. Melissa Ann Murphy 08/29/2000 09:04 AM 
Hello, please let me know if any of these deals are power deals.  We may need to change them in the power system (Enpower).  Thank you, Melissa 
We have received the following executed documents: Consent to Assignment dated as of June 12, 2000 between Merchant Energy Group of the Americas, Inc. (""MEGA"") and ENA, wherein MEGA assigned to Morgan Stanley Capital Group, Inc.  its interest in certain financial transactions it had entered into with ENA; and Amendment to Consent to Assignment dated as of June 13, 2000 wherein  MEGA, ENA and Morgan Stanley agreed that the Transactions assigned in the above Agreement will be governed by the ISDA Master Agreement between ENA and Morgan Stanley. Copies will be distributed. 
Can you provide Melissa with a copy of the recent assignment we entered into.  I think it should already be in the blue file.  Thanks. 
Hello, for future notices Jeff Sorenson is not in my group and does not work with us.  They don't pass documents on to our group.  If their is a way that you all can tell if a particular document is related to power and can send me a copy if it is related to power that would be great.  There was an agreement with Puget Sound (an intermediate agreement until we get an ISDA signed) that was given to Jeff Sorenson's group and I never knew it existed.  Therefore I sent a confirm out incorrectly. Could you possibly ask one of the runners to bring me a copy of this assignment?  My location is 3116a.  I would appreciate it. Thanks alot, Melissa 3-1886 
The list of trades was attached to the assignment.  Jeff Sorenson should have a copy down there. Melissa Ann Murphy 08/29/2000 09:38 AM 
I handle power financial transactions.  I wanted to make sure none of the deals assigned are power financial trades. Thanks, Melissa 3-1886 
My assignment related only to financial transactions.  So it would not be power deals. Melissa Ann Murphy 08/29/2000 09:04 AM 
Hello, please let me know if any of these deals are power deals.  We may need to change them in the power system (Enpower).  Thank you, Melissa 
We have received the following executed documents: Consent to Assignment dated as of June 12, 2000 between Merchant Energy Group of the Americas, Inc. (""MEGA"") and ENA, wherein MEGA assigned to Morgan Stanley Capital Group, Inc.  its interest in certain financial transactions it had entered into with ENA; and Amendment to Consent to Assignment dated as of June 13, 2000 wherein  MEGA, ENA and Morgan Stanley agreed that the Transactions assigned in the above Agreement will be governed by the ISDA Master Agreement between ENA and Morgan Stanley. Copies will be distributed. 
Souad, We can use the Deemed ISDA format I already sent you.  And the guarantees (when we get them) should work for allfinancial transactions. Veronica Espinoza@ENRON 08/29/2000 10:27 AM 
Tana, Another deal was executed on 8/25/00 with  Gas Natural Mexico (#NW9602).  Can we have this deal roll up under the pending Deemed ISDA and Gty that their parent was to issue ENA (Use Credit Previously Provided)? Give me a call at x6-6002 if you have any questions. Thanks, Veronica 
Attached are the Clickpaper Credit Approvals for 8/29/00. Regards, 
Melissa, We've got a counterparty with a draft of a master where the counterparty has the rounding conventing for kilowatts at 6 decimal points.  Is that our standard convention?  Thanks for your help! P.S.  I have passed your request for a copy of that assignment to my assistant Taffy Milligan.  She can get you copies of any documents in the future. 
We've got a draft master with the following rounding conventions: Short tons: zero decimals Temperatures:  zero decimals US Dollar Amounts:  to the nearest cent Do you know whether those are our standard rounding conventions? P.S.  Do you get a invite to our favorite email person's political 
I've been trying to get Clickpaper to expand their product approval list to match the products they offer...maybe your request will help! Karen Lambert 08/29/2000 01:34 PM 
Do we have a current PA approval spreadsheet with approvals for all product types available for trading? If not, are legal and credit okay with continued use of the abbreviated spreadsheet attached? Also, for EOL PA approvals Credit supplies the new counterparty addresses on the approval spreadsheet. Can we please implement this as part of the approval process for Clickpaper? 
Mike, How can Brent get access to our Master Swap Agreement database from EI in Argentina?  Thanks for your help. 
No.  My understanding is that the EI server does not have a link to the ECT server or something else like that which prevents access from my computor down here. 
The question of the day is, do you have access to our Lotus Notes Database? 
Thanks for your help anyway.  I'll just cross out kilowatts, they already had megawatts in there. Melissa Ann Murphy 08/29/2000 01:54 PM 
Hello, we typically trade in Megawatts not kilowatts.  I am not sure of the standard for Megawatts or kilowatts.  I have asked a few people around my and they don't know either.  Sorry I have not been helpful.  If I find out the answer I will let you know. Thanks, Melissa 
Melissa, We've got a counterparty with a draft of a master where the counterparty has the rounding conventing for kilowatts at 6 decimal points.  Is that our standard convention?  Thanks for your help! P.S.  I have passed your request for a copy of that assignment to my assistant Taffy Milligan.  She can get you copies of any documents in the future. 
I live to corrupt young, unsuspecting lawyers... Peter Keohane 08/29/2000 03:06 PM 
Like I said, your a baaad influence. 
The EOL approvals for 08/29/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
I have two Australian counterparties on the referenced list, State Electricity Commission of Victoria and Straits Resources Limited, and I haven't heard from you, and I need to get that list out.  When you send your approval, can you be specific as to whether they are approval for Australian 
Are they approval for ALL products, or only Australian products? David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 08/29/2000 04:47 PM 
Tana apologies. I check the list each morning and only respond if there is an issue. Both enitities are approved from a legal perspective. I have raised some questions Through EOL Product Control here as to why Straits Resources Ltd (a mining company) wants to trade power but they are legally competent to do so. 
I have two Australian counterparties on the referenced list, State Electricity Commission of Victoria and Straits Resources Limited, and I haven't heard from you, and I need to get that list out.  When you send your approval, can you be specific as to whether they are approval for Australian products only, or all products.  Thanks! 
I just had this conv. w/Mark and Marcus Nettleton today about parties acting as agent, or in some fiduciary capacity online.  What I am being told is that the system is set up for parties to only act as principals for online trading.  It does not deal with agent, fiduciary or similar relationships. The only exception to this rule so far has been GPU where they had an agency relationship with 3 utilities, on the power side, where Leslie had some specific documentation that she got signed.  But I am told should not be entering into transactions with counterparties as anything other than principals, except under extraordinary circumstances. Shari Stack 08/29/2000 05:04 PM 
Tana: ""Ameren Energy, Inc. as agent"":  On hold til I speak with Leslie. I imagine they will need to sign our std. Consent & Acknowledgement form which allows them act as agent. It would be helpful to know for whom they are acting as agent. Do you know this? ************************** The following CPs are not authorized to trade US power products: Ameren Service Company - Restricted by Credit Oglethorpe Power Corporation.- Not a current CP/Not FERC approved Curbell, Inc. -   Restricted by Credit Thanks, Shari 
It looks like you will need to get whatever documentation Leslie had sign for those in place with these.  I know she has this problem with the service companies to the utilities. 
I don't understand.  We were dealing with Ameren Services Company, who had been approved to trade online and they are the agent for Union Electric Company and Central Illinois Public Service.  Now they want to trade as another agent, for Union Electric and other affiliates.  Why are we not going to allow them to trade online?.  Leslie has approved them to trade over the counter under this name. SHARI STACK 08/29/2000 05:28 PM 
Thanks for this. Please consider ""Ameren Energy, Inc. as agent"" declined by Legal. 
I just had this conv. w/Mark and Marcus Nettleton today about parties acting as agent, or in some fiduciary capacity online.  What I am being told is that the system is set up for parties to only act as principals for online trading.  It does not deal with agent, fiduciary or similar relationships. The only exception to this rule so far has been GPU where they had an agency relationship with 3 utilities, on the power side, where Leslie had some specific documentation that she got signed.  But I am told should not be entering into transactions with counterparties as anything other than principals, except under extraordinary circumstances. Shari Stack 08/29/2000 05:04 PM 
Tana: ""Ameren Energy, Inc. as agent"":  On hold til I speak with Leslie. I imagine they will need to sign our std. Consent & Acknowledgement form which allows them act as agent. It would be helpful to know for whom they are acting as agent. Do you know this? ************************** The following CPs are not authorized to trade US power products: Ameren Service Company - Restricted by Credit Oglethorpe Power Corporation.- Not a current CP/Not FERC approved Curbell, Inc. -   Restricted by Credit Thanks, Shari 
Attached is a revision to the list I just sent you, revised to reflect that the last two Australian counterparties can only trade the Australian products Credit listed. 
Just a heads up: I am sending up an ISDA Master tonight between ECC and Duke Energy Marketing Limited Partnership for signature of a Canadian officer. 
I am going to have more names to give you from Argentina.  Actually, I need to give access to a number of people to different areas of the swap database.  I am in a seminar the rest of today, but when I get back I'll 
Attached please find the referenced Annex B and copy of transmittal fax. 
At Mark Taylor's request, I am attaching Leslie Hansen's form of override letter when a GTC will ""override"" the master agreement for online transactions. How are you doing Justy? 
The EOL approvals for 08/30/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Raquel Guzman, the lawyer for the referenced counterparty called again, and she is going on vacation next week and wants to get that ETA finalized so they can start trading when she's out.  She seems to feel the way the ETA is written that they are responsible for all unauthorized use of the password, including hackers into the system, and wants the language limited to use caused by their fault or negligence.  Can you call her at 215/684-6630. 
Tana, Sorry for the wait.  See attached: Thanks, Joe 
Camille Gerard. Karen Lambert 08/31/2000 11:08 AM 
Who should we contact in order to obtain copies of the approved online GTC's for ClickPaper? 
Per the emails below, it appears you are looking for the Legal and Privacy Statement.  Mark T. said Leslie just revised it for the online team.  Leslie is on vacation until the 9th, but I think attached below may be the latest draft.  It is located in her ""Online"" subdirectory, under ""Phase 2"". 
Tana, Do you know what this information is? Thanks, Stephanie 
Rhonda, Can you provide me with the Agency Agreement or other documentation you may have received with respect to this agency relationship.  Thanks! Rhonda L Denton 08/29/2000 05:18 PM 
Please note the following changes: Ameren Services Company (ASC) Assigned its sales agreement to: Ameren Energy, Inc. as agent (ASC) (for and on behalf of Union Electric Company d/b/a Ameren UE, Ameren Energy Marketing Company, and Ameren Energy Generating Company) Transmission remains with Ameren Services Company 
With respect to the referenced List: 1.  Ameren Services Company-OK to shut down powe & SO2, as per Credit's direction 2.  Oglethorpe Power Corporation-they are specifically being opened to trade power, however, our records do not show them as having a FERC license.  If they really want to trade power we are going to need a name and phone # to contact them & get evidence of their FERC license. 3.  Ameren Energy, Inc.-we cannot currently open them up until we investigate more this agency thing.  It doesn't mean we're shutting them down forever, we just need more info. 
Alan Aronowitz is working on a presentation he has to give in Singapore on Global Energy Derivatives, and wanted to put a little blurb in of some kind about weather.  He wanted to see if he could get a copy of the presentation you and Mike Corbally gave at the ISDA seminar to see if there were any slides that might be helpful for his presentation.  Do you have a copy I can 
I must have missed your promotion.  Congratulations!  Atttached is the certificate so you do not have to retype it. Peter Keohane 08/31/2000 06:07 PM 
Troublemaker, I am Secretary and and not Assistant of Enron Canada Corp. P. 
The EOL approvals for 08/31/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Where are y'll moving to? Rhonda L Denton 08/31/2000 03:59 PM 
I believe Leslie Hansen has a copy of it.  Unfortunately, our files are packed up for the move tomorrow and I can't check to see if I have a copy.  I left Genia a message to see if she could check Leslie's file, but if she's not in the office, Leslie may not mind if you look through her Ameren file. 
Rhonda, Can you provide me with the Agency Agreement or other documentation you may have received with respect to this agency relationship.  Thanks! Rhonda L Denton 08/29/2000 05:18 PM 
Please note the following changes: Ameren Services Company (ASC) Assigned its sales agreement to: Ameren Energy, Inc. as agent (ASC) (for and on behalf of Union Electric Company d/b/a Ameren UE, Ameren Energy Marketing Company, and Ameren Energy Generating Company) Transmission remains with Ameren Services Company 
I originally had the referenced counterparty opened for power.  Are we sure 
On the attached list, Alliant Energy Corporation is coming back thru to be opened for East power, and the power lawyers are telling me they don't have a FERC license.  If they really want to trade power I will need a name and phone number so our power lawyers can talk to them. 
Then, I'll stick with what I told the EOL team.  If they really want to trade power they will have to get us a contact and we'll talk to them to see why they think they can trade power.  Otherwise, it stays as a ""no"". Shari Stack 09/01/2000 09:09 AM 
According to all the FERC lists Leslie left me - they are nowhere to be found. I have checked all 6 lists lists twice. Tana Jones 09/01/2000 08:56 AM 
I originally had the referenced counterparty opened for power.  Are we sure it is not a FERC approved marketer? 
Just a head's up.  Dave finally got the amendment to the ETA signed, so I am 
Per my conv. w/Sandy Steffen w/the referenced counterparty (ph: 734/887--2048, fax: 734/887-2056): POWER:  It appears they would like to trade many of the East Coast power contracts.  She isn't sure whether the Purchase and Sale Agreement they have in place with us would cover East Coast power, and whether it would cover firm and non-firm power.  Also, she was wondering whether we trade power transmission (I had no idea, silly me).  Further, even if we have a master in place with them, I don't know whether we would want to transact under it or under a GTC.  My records show they have come thru before through EOL and Legal shut down for power (Credit has them open). EMISSIONS:  They would also like to transact SO2, and want to get a master in place with  us.  I told her I would have one of the emissions lawyers talk to her (they are already open w/Legal & Credit to trade emissions). MASTER USER CHANGE:  She already has a password set up with us and would like 
When you're done with that agreement can you pass it back to me for the 
I keep trying to email them, but it won't go thru.  Maybe this time... michael.mulligan@americas.bnpparibas.com 09/01/2000 02:24 PM 
Hi Tana; I never did receive a copy of the Weather Derivative Confirmation. Can you send it again upon your return from the Labor Day weekend? Thanks much. Kind regards. 
Did you get the email of the documents I sent you, soon after we spoke? michael.mulligan@americas.bnpp 
derivatives confirmation form Good afternoon Tana; Just in case I may have mistakenly given you a wrong letter or two in my email address, I thought it best to send this note regarding the above form so that you can email to me at your convenience. Thanks much. Kind regards. ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________ Ce message et toutes les pieces jointes (ci-apres le ""message"") sont etablis a l'intention exclusive de ses destinataires et sont confidentiels. Si vous recevez ce message par erreur, merci de le detruire et d'en avertir immediatement l'expediteur. Toute utilisation de ce message non conforme a sa destination, toute diffusion ou toute publication, totale ou partielle, est interdite, sauf autorisation expresse. L'internet ne permettant pas d'assurer l'integrite de ce message, BNP PARIBAS (et ses filiales) decline(nt) toute responsabilite au titre de ce message, dans l'hypothese ou il aurait ete modifie. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- This message and any attachments (the ""message"") are intended solely for the addressees and are confidential. If you receive this message in error, please delete it and immediately notify the sender. Any use not in accord with its purpose, any dissemination or disclosure, either whole or partial, is prohibited except formal approval. The internet can not guarantee the integrity of this message. BNP PARIBAS (and its subsidiaries) shall (will) not therefore be liable for the message if modified. ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________ Ce message et toutes les pieces jointes (ci-apres le ""message"") sont etablis a l'intention exclusive de ses destinataires et sont confidentiels. Si vous recevez ce message par erreur, merci de le detruire et d'en avertir immediatement l'expediteur. Toute utilisation de ce message non conforme a sa destination, toute diffusion ou toute publication, totale ou partielle, est interdite, sauf autorisation expresse. L'internet ne permettant pas d'assurer l'integrite de ce message, BNP PARIBAS (et ses filiales) decline(nt) toute responsabilite au titre de ce message, dans l'hypothese ou il aurait ete modifie. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- This message and any attachments (the ""message"") are intended solely for the addressees and are confidential. If you receive this message in error, please delete it and immediately notify the sender. Any use not in accord with its purpose, any dissemination or disclosure, either whole or partial, is prohibited except formal approval. The internet can not guarantee the integrity of this message. BNP PARIBAS (and its subsidiaries) shall (will) not therefore be liable for the message if modified. ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________ 
The ISDA Multicurrency Agreement Schedule has been approved and moved into the attorney forms bank.  It is located at o:legal\atty.fms\swaps\current forms\isda-multicurrency.doc. The old ISDA Multicurrency Agreement Schedule is located at 
Attached are the Clickpaper Credit Approvals for 9/1/00. Regards, tm 
We have received the executed Letter Agreement dated 8/2/00 amending the Electronic Trading Agreement with the referenced counterparty.  Copies will 
With respect to Ameren Services Company, my notes say I originally had them 
The EOL approvals for 09/01/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
The Power Trading Legal Group is perfectly happy with everyone on this list. :) 
Bill Bradford called this morning and wants to put Duetsche Bank on the front burner.  He has been speaking to them and wants to set up a conference call later this week to resolve the remaining issues.  It appears that Carol was working on this master.  Bill wants to know what lawyer will be picking this up, hopefully sometime this morning, so he can set up the conference call. 
The icon below should get you in to the database. 
Per your request... 
Attached is the link that will allow you access to referenced database. Please note, that we have just upgraded the database to add the ISDA definitions, branch offices approved for trading, and market disruption provisions.  This information should be inputted for the new master swap agreements on a going forward basis, but we still need to go back and repopulate the data for the existing master swap agreements. Also, FYI, the ""See"" drop down is our nickname for the name changes and mergers reference.  If an item is filled in for that entity it should show you any prior or new names for the counterparty. If there is anyone else who would like the link, please let me know and I will forward it to them. We hope you find the information provided in this database helpful. Link --> 
Thanks Scott! Scott Tackett@ENRON 09/05/2000 03:21 PM 
Here is a copy of the most recent deal done with El Paso 
The EOL approvals for 09/05/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of the referenced Counterparty, which guarantees the obligations of ENA under an  ISDA Master Agreement.  We will need the standard executed copy. In addition, we will need the following closing documents:  Certificate of Incumbency. Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
Mark and I made some changes to conform the confidentiality provisions in the ISDA and Industrial Master Agreements that he wants me to run by you, (1) adding financial institutions to ISDA (or deleting from Industrial), and (2) adding same language to ISDA that we added to Industrial ""...and each of such 
We have received the executed Letter Agreement dated August 4, 2000 amending the Electronic Trading Agreement with the referenced counterparty.  Copies 
Shari, I've got them shut down for power.  They were one of the counterparty's on the initial approval lists.  The online team tells me we are trading power 
I would like to clear up a confusing situation with Ameren which is currently taking place: On 8/29, Ameren Service Company (""ASC"") they asked us to take them off EOL, apparently because they now want to trade in EOL under the name ""Ameren Energy Inc. as agent"". On 8/29, Legal said OK to taking ASC off EOL and said further that AEI's approval to trade on EOL was ""on-hold"" until Legal checked out the agency aspect. Despite this - AEI appears to have been trading on EOL since 8/16 and the confirmations we have been receiving back have been marked up by them. They are trying to change the name on the confirmations to AEI acting as agent for various entities.  I instructed Stephanie Sever yesterday to make sure that AEI either acting for itself OR acting as agent does not have access to EOL. This needs to stay the case until Legal directs otherwise. Just so everyone is aware, Leslie Hansen spoke with Ameren several weeks ago and told them that they would need to sign a special Consent Form as well as a modified ETA before AEI could act as an agent on EOL. The forms were emailed to them on 8/22 and to my knowledge, they have not been returned to us.  I have left messages for the Ameren's attorney to call me but she has not done so yet.  In any case, until they return the requested documents, they cannot trade on EOL. With regard to Ameren Service Company, today they appear to want to be back on EOL. That is fine so long as it is clear that they are doing so under the documentation that they signed originally. If anyone has questions, please call me on ext. 39477 Thank you, 
Travis, The lastest trading/online memo is in my subdirectory, tjones/forms/questionnaire Umbrella Re-Internet Trading 1cln.doc. 
We were working on Brazil (Andrea Bertone in Sao Paolo was heading it up) but I think they have stopped for now.  I'll look for her latest e-mail and forward it to you.  The others are all new.  Tana can give you the form of local counsel survey we have been using if you want it. Travis McCullough 09/05/2000 08:06 PM 
Is anyone doing the legal work necessary to start conducting online trading in any of the following jurisdictions?  Clickpaper wants to add customers from these jurisdictions and it doesn't appear that EOL ""goes there"" yet: Brazil India china Turkey Lebanon Venezuela Travis McCullough Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street EB 3817 Houston Texas 77002 Phone:  (713) 853-1575 Fax: (713) 646-3490 
I looked in our financial agreement database and ECTRIC does not have a master in place with either of those entities.  London Legal sent a draft to Credit Lyonnais in March of 1999, but there appears to be no activity under that master.  Credit Lyonnais has a master styled ""Credit Lyonnais New York Branch (AAA Program) with Enron North America, under which we trade interest rate, currencies & equities, and Toronto Dominion has master in place with Enron North America and one with Enron Gas and Petrochemicals Trading Limited, an English corp., and a subsidiary of ECTRIC (however, I do not have a copy and do not know if this is a limited purpose master or not), but nothing for either of these entities under ECTRIC.  I hope this is helpful. Let me know if I can be of further service Philippe Penet 09/06/2000 12:40 PM 
Tana / Paul, I am trying to check whether or not ECTRIC (US entity) has an ISDA agreement in place with Credit Lyonnais and Toronto Dominion (TD) (or Master Swap Agreement). Justin Boyd from Legal gave me your names as a starting point. We are currently negotiating a prepay transaction with Credit Lyonnais and TD and I need this information quite urgently Could you let me know if you are the right people to ask to? Thank you for your assistance Kind regards Philippe Penet Manager - EGF 
I knew it was Canadian and started with a ""T"".  Am I good or what!?!  When you get to be my age you'll have no memory left.  Sure wish you were down here enjoying these 109+ degree days with us.  It'll make you appreciate Calgary in Winter. Peter Keohane 09/06/2000 01:06 PM 
Milnthorp is following up with McKay who is back tomorrow.  PS TransAlta Energy Marketing. 
I just wanted to let you know I haven't forgotten you.  My usual source for getting the ETA's is out, and I'm trying to track down someone else who can send them to me... Travis McCullough 09/05/2000 08:04 PM 
My buddy Edmund is out of the office for a while.  Can you tell me who else I can contact to get a copy of EnronOnline's ETA for Mexico and Japan? Travis McCullough Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street EB 3817 Houston Texas 77002 Phone:  (713) 853-1575 Fax: (713) 646-3490 
Tanya called and asked me to get ready for Catalytica, and prepare the Annex B, pending approval of the deal.  I have it ready and am just waiting to hear 
Can I attend? 
Notice No. 315 September 6, 2000 The New York Mercantile Exchange requests the pleasure of your company at a reception at The Arts Club 40 Dover Street London W1X 3RB Sunday, October 8, 2000 6:00 to 8:00 P.M. R.S.V.P to Helen Wogel by e-mail: hwogel@nymex.co.uk or by fax: (0011) 44-20-7734-9411 __________________________________________________ Please click on the link below to indicate you have received this email. 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of the referenced Counterparty, which guarantees the obligations of ENA under a financial confirmation.  We will need the standard executed copy. Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
Have you heard anything back from Gas Natural with respect to getting their signed guarantees on the Comercializadora Metrogas  and Gas Natural Mexico trades?  I've been holding my Enron Guarantees as leverage in getting theirs.  We are at the period in the confirms where we need to exchange 
When you get back in we need to talk about this cpy.  My records had them shut down for power, they called about contract issue and wanting to trade in all products areas, and speaking to Shari and checking your notes, you had them as open.  Since they haven't traded power yet, I had Frank shut them down until I confirm with you they're OK and under what contracts. 
The EOL approvals for 09/06/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Tana Jones -XL Linda J Noske 09/06/2000 01:48 PM 
PLEASE FORWARD YOUR SHIRT SIZE TO ME (S, M, L, XL, ETC.) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, BUT NO LATER THAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2000. THANK YOU!!!! 
FYI 
Ameren Energy, Inc., as agent cannot trade Australian power as only 
John, Sorry about taking so long to get back to you on this.  Re:  sample master agreements...we recently had a group meeting where we were discouraged to send out sample masters.  What appears to be happening is that a customer gets a sample master w/no credit, and then when we finally send them a real master w/credit, they are somewhat hacked off because the end up being incredibly longer once credit is added. If possible, can we not talk to Credit about sending them a real master?  Let me know your thinking... John Malowney 08/23/2000 10:20 AM 
Tana, would you please e-mail a sample ISDA to Mr. Ray Cunningham of Exxon and let me know when you've done so.   Thanks again !!    John 
I just got another call from Sandy Steffen, and she would like, if possible, to resolve any contract issues with have with each of the product groups, so they can be set up to trade by tomorrow.   She also expressed an interest espectially today  in NATURAL GAS.   After talking to her can you let me know under what contract and/or limitations they can trade.  Thanks It appears she has only heard back from the online team 
Per my conv. w/Sandy Steffen w/the referenced counterparty (ph: 734/887--2048, fax: 734/887-2056): POWER:  It appears they would like to trade many of the East Coast power contracts.  She isn't sure whether the Purchase and Sale Agreement they have in place with us would cover East Coast power, and whether it would cover firm and non-firm power.  Also, she was wondering whether we trade power transmission (I had no idea, silly me).  Further, even if we have a master in place with them, I don't know whether we would want to transact under it or under a GTC.  My records show they have come thru before through EOL and Legal shut down for power (Credit has them open). EMISSIONS:  They would also like to transact SO2, and want to get a master in place with  us.  I told her I would have one of the emissions lawyers talk to her (they are already open w/Legal & Credit to trade emissions). MASTER USER CHANGE:  She already has a password set up with us and would like 
Taffy, I just spoke to Marie and she needs a set.  Also, take Susan Flynn and Jason Peters off your distribution. Taffy Milligan 09/07/2000 11:02 AM 
Good morning. Following-up yesterday's discussion regarding the ISDA Notebooks, I am preparing to have extra sets of the ISDA Notebooks printed.  Please advise how many sets you need, if any. Taffy 
We have received a copy of an executed Assignment and Novation of Transactions dated July, 20, 1999, as amended August 3, 1999, effective on August 12, 1999, wherein Merrill Lynch Capital Services, Inc. assigned certain transactions to J. Aron and Company.  A copy of the assignment will 
Per my conversations with Mark Taylor, we should continue to put any weather trades done online under any relevant master agreement with the counterparty.  Further, there is no prohibition against doing a trade online with a counterparty when we do not have a master in place.  Any non-master trades would go under the respective GTC.  It appears to be only a coincidence that we are trading online only with counterparties we have 
Where did Souad go? Larry Joe Hunter 09/07/2000 12:15 PM 
Brant / Credit group, Souad is no longer on the Confirm desk.  Please copy myself, Derek Bailey and Janie Aguayo on all correspondence. Thanks, Joe Brant Reves 09/07/2000 10:40 AM 
Please provide the confirm desk with appropriate language to satisify the terms of this credit worksheet. Thanks Brant 
Notice No. 00-312 September 5, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX AND COMEX MEMBERS FROM: Neal L. Wolkoff, Executive Vice President DATE: September 5, 2000 RE: Reminder Notice on Change of Trading Hours for Light Sweet Crude Oil, Heating Oil, Gasoline and Natural Gas Futures and for Natural Gas Options REGULAR TRADING HOURS SESSION Beginning on Friday, September 8, the RTH market opens for Natural Gas futures and for Natural Gas option contracts both will be moved up (from 10:00 a.m.) to 9:30 a.m.; the market closes for these contracts will remain the same. The RTH hours for all other energy contracts will remain the same. NYMEX ACCESS TRADING SESSION The new trading hours listed below for the NYMEX ACCESS trading session will commence on Thursday, September 7, for trade date September 8.  The hours for Natural Gas have been greatly expanded.  Crude Oil, Heating Oil and Unleaded Gasoline will trade for an additional hour (until 9:00 a.m.) OLD TRADING HOURS ON NYMEX ACCESS 1. Natural Gas Futures & Options Sunday: Do not currently trade during this session Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 7:00 PM 2. Crude Oil Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 8:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 8:00 AM 3. Heating Oil Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 8:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 8:00 AM 4. Unleaded Gasoline Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 8:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 8:00 AM NEW TRADING HOURS ON NYMEX ACCESS Beginning 9/07 for Trade Date 9/08 1. Natural Gas Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 9:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 9:00 AM 2. Crude Oil Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 9:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 9:00 AM 3. Heating Oil Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 9:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 9:00 AM 4. Unleaded Gasoline Futures & Options Sunday: 7:00 PM - 9:00 AM Monday through Thursday: 4:00 PM - 9:00 AM If you have any questions, please contact George Henderson, Vice President, NYMEX Floor Department, at (212) 299-2071. __________________________________________________ Please click on the link below to indicate you have received this email. 
The 12 month restriction isn't coming from Legal, it's coming from Credit. You need to contact Tom Moran. Kathy M Moore 09/07/2000 01:43 PM 
Customer would like to find out why his profile is set only at 12 months for US Power.  He stated that he currently does OTC for longer periods and would like to for EnronOnline also. Glen Grayeb Sithe Power Marketing, L.P. 212.351.0360 ggrayeb@sithe.com Please advise and thanks for your help. Kathy Moore EnronOnline 713-853-4720 
I checked the Corporate Database and it's not listed at all.  Maybe Brad knows... Larry Joe Hunter 09/07/2000 01:49 PM 
Do either of you know if this is a wholly owned Enron entity.  we currently have three deals booked to RMT. Thanks, Joe 
Per Credit, Charlie Hoang on the Confirm Desk needs an Enron Corp. guaranty of the attached physical pulp & paper deal.  I told Credit that your group handles physical P&P. 
Tana, per my discussion with Paul Radous, I am supposed to provide you with some information. Counterparty has requested a Letter of Guarantee from the parent company of ENA for pulp purchase. Enclosed is the contract for this deal.  If you have questions, please cal me.  Thank you. 
Can you please send a copy of the executed master and any amendments thereto to David Dupre on the Confirm Desk.  Thanks! 
Yes, to North America, Australia and Japan. Karen Lambert 09/07/2000 04:30 PM 
Does this apply only to the North American contracts and weather trades for which you are responsible? Does the instruction below apply to Australia and Japan ISDA's? 
Per my conversations with Mark Taylor, we should continue to put any weather trades done online under any relevant master agreement with the counterparty.  Further, there is no prohibition against doing a trade online with a counterparty when we do not have a master in place.  Any non-master trades would go under the respective GTC.  It appears to be only a coincidence that we are trading online only with counterparties we have masters in place with. 
With respect to the referenced list, my instructions from power was to shut down Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Lower Colorado River Authority from both execute and view status for power.  With respect to Lower Colorado River Authority and bandwidth, I spoke to the Broadband team, and they haven't considered the governmental angle with respect to bandwidth, so they are running it by outside counsel (who happens to be in Singapore this week), and will get back to me.  So until I hear otherwise, I am shutting them down for bandwidth. 
The EOL approvals for 09/07/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
financial ID for physical transaction) 
Yes, I've prepared the assignment, I am just waiting for the lawyer to sign off on it. Mary Griff Gray 09/08/2000 07:25 AM 
financial ID for physical transaction) Tana -- Has Coral Energy's legal group been in contact with you regarding an assignment regarding the above? Thanks, Griff x35753 
Andrea Hauser w/EnronOnline called and said that Marathon has a problem with the terms of the online GTC's (default language) for LPG, petrochems, and refined products and would like to talk to one of our lawyers.   Marathon's lawyer is Rhonda Stinemyer and her # is 713/296-2408.  Can you let Andrea know who will be handling this. 
financial ID for physical transaction) 
Sure! Mary Griff Gray 09/08/2000 10:08 AM 
financial ID for physical transaction) Wonderful -- I'll let my counterparty know.  Would you let me know when it goes to Coral for approval? Thanks, Griff 
financial ID for physical transaction) Yes, I've prepared the assignment, I am just waiting for the lawyer to sign off on it. Mary Griff Gray 09/08/2000 07:25 AM 
financial ID for physical transaction) Tana -- Has Coral Energy's legal group been in contact with you regarding an assignment regarding the above? Thanks, Griff x35753 
Please note new products.  Let me know if you have any issues or concerns with any of these. 
Please see the attached spreadsheet with new additions in blue.  A couple of Enron entity names changes (Enron Australia Finance Pty limited to Enron Japan Corp.)  Also note that Sea Freight Fin Swap BCI 4 and Sea Freight Fin Swap BCI 7 have been renamed from previous UK prefix.  Please let me know if you have any questions.  Please begin using the attached spreadsheet on Monday, Sept. 11. Thanks, 
financial ID for physical transaction) 
I'm getting ready right now to fax it over to Meg. Mary Griff Gray 09/08/2000 10:08 AM 
financial ID for physical transaction) Wonderful -- I'll let my counterparty know.  Would you let me know when it goes to Coral for approval? Thanks, Griff 
financial ID for physical transaction) Yes, I've prepared the assignment, I am just waiting for the lawyer to sign off on it. Mary Griff Gray 09/08/2000 07:25 AM 
financial ID for physical transaction) Tana -- Has Coral Energy's legal group been in contact with you regarding an assignment regarding the above? Thanks, Griff x35753 
At the request of Sara, I am attaching the ETA.  I am also sending the PA, just in case... 
I just got a call from Kevin Meredith on the Confirm Desk and it appears that the referenced internal entities have done a trade yesterday and have done other trades in the past and we need to get a master in place.  Can you send 
At the request of Sara, I am attaching the ETA.  I am also sending the PA, just in case... 
Per emails below, Mike Robison, attorney (x36667) and Nony Flores, Paralegal (x37541) will handle. 
Alan indicated that he would have Mike and Nony handle this matter. 
Yes, I'll have Mike and Nony handle. Alan Dan J Hyvl 09/08/2000 09:50 AM 
Alan, Is this something that someone in your group should respond to? 
Andrea Hauser w/EnronOnline called and said that Marathon has a problem with the terms of the online GTC's (default language) for LPG, petrochems, and refined products and would like to talk to one of our lawyers.   Marathon's lawyer is Rhonda Stinemyer and her # is 713/296-2408.  Can you let Andrea know who will be handling this. Thanks. 
Thanks for your help! Dan J Hyvl 09/12/2000 08:15 AM 
Alan indicated that he would have Mike and Nony handle this matter. 
Yes, I'll have Mike and Nony handle. Alan Dan J Hyvl 09/08/2000 09:50 AM 
Alan, Is this something that someone in your group should respond to? 
Andrea Hauser w/EnronOnline called and said that Marathon has a problem with the terms of the online GTC's (default language) for LPG, petrochems, and refined products and would like to talk to one of our lawyers.   Marathon's lawyer is Rhonda Stinemyer and her # is 713/296-2408.  Can you let Andrea know who will be handling this. Thanks. 
Just a reminder that if you change any of the resolutions contained in our Swap Resolutions Notebook, you need to update the Index, and substitute the revised resolutions into each of the Swap Group's persons Notebooks.  These would include for any of the trading companies, the resolutions that approve what we trade (which also includes who can sign the appropriate documents), as well as the brokerage approval resolutions.  It does not include the 
Heating Oil 
Mary Lynne, These notices will be coming by email on a going forward basis. 
Heating Oil Notice No. 00-323 September 12, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: MARGIN RATE CHANGE 
Will alan handle this? 
John and Tana, The attached is fine from a tax perspective. Best regards, Susan 
The EOL approvals for 09/11/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Contract 
Notice No. 00-316 September 8, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: INTIAL MARGINS FOR MID-COLUMBIA FUTURES 
The Clickpaper approvals for 9/8/00 are attached below. Regards, 
It's back dated to the oldest outstanding trade with the counterparty. Clement Abrams@ENRON 09/08/2000 04:31 PM 
Hey, What's with the out dated effective date. 1996? I had just got to Enron in December 1996. Clem Tana Jones@ECT 09/05/00 05:02 PM 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of the referenced Counterparty, which guarantees the obligations of ENA under an  ISDA Master Agreement.  We will need the standard executed copy. In addition, we will need the following closing documents:  Certificate of Incumbency. Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
The EOL approvals for 09/08/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
ures=20 Contract Notice No. 00-322 September 11, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS ALL NYMEX MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING MEMBERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: Introduction of the Mid-Columbia Electricity Futures Contract. The New York Mercantile Exchange will begin trading the Mid-Columbia=20 Electricity Futures contract at 4 PM on September 14, which marks the start= =20 of the September 15 electronic trading session on NYMEX ACCESS. This contract will be traded electronically along with the other Exchange= =20 electricity contracts on the system, with the session beginning at 7 PM on= =20 Sundays and 4 PM on Mondays through Thursdays and ending at 2:30 PM Mondays= =20 through Fridays. =20 the actual delivery varying according to the number of on-peak days during= =20 the delivery month.  The first contract month will be November.  (Initial= =20 Margins for Mid-Columbia are listed in Notice to Members No. 00-316 attache= d.) The Exchange will list 11 months beginning with November 2000 through=20 September 2001. The Mid-Columbia Electricity Futures contract will use KM as the outright= =20 commodity code and SE for the strip code. Physical delivery may take place at any of the switchyards associated with= =20 the following four hydro-projects:  Rocky Reach, Rock Island, Wanapum and= =20 Priest Rapids.  These switchyards include:  Rocky Reach, Rock Island,=20 Wanapum, McKenzie, Valhalla, Columbia, Midway and Vantage. The contract terms and conditions match those of the Exchange=01,s Western= =20 contracts at Palo Verde and the California Oregon Border. Delivery Period: 16 on-peak hours: hour ending 0700 (6 AM) Pacific time to hour ending 2200 (10 PM) Pacific time on each business day of the delivery month. Termination of  Trading: Trading in the delivery month shall cease on the fourth Business day prior = to=20 the first day of the delivery month. Prices and Fluctuations Prices shall be quoted in dollars and cents per Mwh. The minimum price fluctuation will be $.01 per Mwh. There is no maximum daily price fluctuation. For questions concerning this Notice please contact Brad Leach, Research=20 Department (212) 299-2609 or Elizabeth Kuhlenkamp, Research Department (212= )=20 299-2597. __________________________________________________ Please click on the link below to indicate you have received this email. 
Heating Oil 
Heating Oil Pls change my name to Greg Whiting.  Thanks. 
Oil Mary Lynne, These notices will be coming by email on a going forward basis. 
Heating Oil Notice No. 00-323 September 12, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: MARGIN RATE CHANGE 
Contract 
Point well taken! Kevin McGowan@ENRON 09/12/2000 10:31 AM 
Contract I am not in power any longer, but I would like to comment.  The creation of this contract is the most ridiculous waste of time.  How could you create a new contract when the existing contracts (PV and COB) should be shut down? KJM 
Why, I do believe the three Tudor deals gets us to 451! Tanya Rohauer 09/12/2000 11:08 AM 
what number are we on? 
Mea culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa...! We were in the process of revising our form, so I just have to draft up an Canadian version of the sample ISDA master and get yoou a draft.  I'll try and get to it the next day or two. Greg Johnston 09/12/2000 03:23 PM 
Tana, I know we exchanged a couple of e-mails since the below about you providing to me the Canadian financial trading precedents described below, but I forget where it was left.  We do need to get these precedents to the counterparty as soon as possible and I apologize for not following up on it. As suggested, I need the actual base ISDA agreement, paragraph 13, credit support annex, etc. as well as the short form financial GTC but I do not need the municipal government schedule at this point.  Could you gather together these precedents and forward them directly to Chris Gaffney in Toronto? Let me know if you need anything else from me. Cheers Greg 
Tana, Enron Canada is currently negotiating a transaction with 6 major municipalities in Ontario (the ""G6"") to provide various services to a company those 6 entities are setting up, which services will include physical and financial trading (both gas and electricity).  John Suttle is working with Jan Wilson of our Toronto office to set the credit terms applicable to this entity on both the physical and financial trading side, but they have not yet made a final determination.  In the interim, the G6 has requested that we send them a copy of our precedent form of master financial trading agreement (both the ISDA and our short form financial GTC).  I assume you get requests like this all the time and was hoping that you could e-mail to me (i) the ISDA, credit support annex, Paragraph 13, etc. that we would typically put in place between ECC and a Canadian counterparty to financially trade gas and electricity in Canada (ie. incorporating the Canadian provisions), leaving the credit terms blank for the time being and (ii) the financial GTC we use for Canadian counterparties. Call me if you have any questions or if there are any problems with preparing and forwarding these documents to the counterparty. Thanks Greg 
The EOL approvals for 09/12/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
I could not believe my ears when I heard from Ms. Heard that you are working covertly behind the scenes to ensure a Broadband win to the signed master competition.   I would think that Credit would have no biased interest in the 
Upon further reflection of the undue influence you have attempted in the past and are currently attempting (need we forget you trying to get Bob Crane not to sign my agreements!), it seems like you have a lack of confidence in your 
Here is a picture of Alicia's baby.  It really is a pretty baby! 
Here is a great picture of little Haley Goodrow. y 
_________________________________________________________________________ Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com. Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at http://profiles.msn.com. - DSCN0007.JPG 
Attached is the referenced list.  No problems with this counterparty. 
Per attached email from Leslie, can you open this counterparty up for all power.  Thanks! 
Tana: DTE Energy Trading should be open for all US physical power products.  They can trade pursuant to the existing power master. 
I'm working with Mike Corbally's office to get the missing information on Reporting Service, Reporting Agency and Datasource for the European based weather confirmations.  As soon as I have that information available, I will plug it into the confirms and email the confirms to you. Mark Taylor said someone there in London Legal was working on a list of approved jurisdictions for derivatives.  Is it ready yet?  Can I get a copy of it?  I need it to continue my work on the approved counterparty list. 
The EOL approvals for 09/08/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Please add these counterparties to the list previously sent. thanks, Stephanie 
Stephanie, Recently, Enron has introduced a new product, US Power Financial Swaps in New York.  I noticed customers are not transacting often on those products and I believe it is due to financials not being open to trade with a number of companies.  Below I have listed  key customers that need to have this option to trade. American Electric Power Service Corporation Consolidated Edison Energy, Inc Florida Power & Light Company HQ Energy Services (U.S.) Inc. New York State Electric & Gas Corporation Select Energy, Inc. Ontario Power Generation Inc. Sithe Power Marketing Inc. Allegheny Energy, Inc. Please open these companies if they can trade financials online.  Keep me posted on the status. Thank you very much for your time. T. Mandola 
Per request from the East power group - please review the following counterparties for transaction capabilities for East Power Financial Products on EOL. Cinergy Services, Inc. Northern Indiana Public Service Co. Coral Power LLC Aquila Energy Marketing Corporation PG&E Energy Trading - Power, L.P. Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc. Commonwealth Edison Company Constellation Power Source Inc. Entergy Power Marketing Corp. Amoco Energy Trading Corp Please let me know if these counterparties can have access to transact on financial power products. Thanks for your help. 
Need to know the scoop on City of Roseville and Puget Sound... 
Leslie said that she will call you re: City of Roseville (and Puget Sound as well). 
Tana: The following CP's are not authorized to trade US Power Products: Willowbridge Associates: Declined by Credit City of Roseville: Need to speak with Elizabeth/Leslie  - will get back to you on them today. Coastal Field Services Restricted by Credit Mississippi Chemical Corporation - Restricted by Credit Thanks, Shari 
Joe, I got a call from the Coral people that a corrected confirm had already been sent to them PRIOR to us getting them to sign the consent to assignment of the trade.  I'm sure whoever prepared it on the confirm desk didn't know I was working on this, but I told the Coral people I still needed the assignment back signed to keep our paperwork straight.  Even tho I hate to 
Tana, Finally, here is the deal you requested. Thanks, Joe 
Please note this is the correct file.  The first file sent, didn't have a profile for Merrick.  Please use this. The EOL approvals for 09/13/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
I'm working on my backlog of lists.  I thought I'd send thru a few so you could get started. 
HS Energy Services is relying on a parent guaranty to be able to meet the ESP criteria.  It does not meet the financial test on its own.  However, we have approved them to trade financial and have an ISDA Master in place.  Should I shut them down for the Australia products? David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/12/2000 06:25 PM 
Are we comfortable with the asset level of HS Energy Services, Inc. is ar least USD10M? 
The EOL approvals for 09/12/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
On the 9/11/00 list, Credit wants to open Ontario Power to trade financial power, but I cannot until we speak to Canadian outside counsel.  They are part of the split up of Ontario Hydro, which was the Province of Ontario, and obviously, a governmental, before the split up.  They are still a wholly owned sub of a governmental and we cannot open them up until we talk to outside counsel about the governmental issues.  I have a call into Canadian counsel right now. Also, on the 9/8/00 list, Sempra Energy Solution called me to find out when they could trade, so if you could open them up pronto... 
In don't know anything about this, do you? 
FYI.  Maybe this relates to your PG&E counterparty. 
Kelly, On 5/11 we traded a Financial Power deal with PG&E Energy Trading - Power L.P., EW9838.  We had previously been notified by Credit/Legal that no Financial Power deals were to be done with this C/P.  Please advise. Thanks, Joe 
Attached is the proposed draft of the ISDA.  I think two substantive issues 
Tana, I know you prepared the Grupo Calidra Deemed ISDA, so thought you should see Joe's message. I am not familar with the particulars of the deal, but in the event they and/or Enron were to furnish a parent guaranty, then you may need to find if Joe received their Guaranty. Susan S. Bailey Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, Suite 3806A Houston, Texas 77002 Phone: (713) 853-4737 Fax: (713) 646-3490 E:mail:  Susan.Bailey@enron.com 
In case you weren't aware,  Brent Hendry just sent down an Executed copy of Grupo Calidra, S.A. de C.V. (Deal #NV3215.1,.2,.3,.4).  No Annexes were attached to the fax. Thanks, Joe Hunter 
Tana, Please review attached NDA. Mark, I guess that Reuters felt that we should proceed rather than use the current agreement. 
This showed up while you were in London. Can you please get the NDA reviewed and signed. Thanks. 
Andy, Rob Garfield has asked me to pass along the attached NDA for your legal folks to review. Currently, I am working with Chris Behney of Enron in your Market Data Service department on a NDA as well and is with the Enron legal folks at the moment. The Reuters legal department has revised the NDA below which is in process with respect to certain initiatives between Reuters and Enron in order for it to cover the potential energy transactions venture Reuters and Enron are currently discussing.  This document is blackline marked to show changes from the 8/15 version circulated by Natasha Wyss of the Reuters Legal Department. I do not have access to the Enron legal person to forward this document.  If you could obtain the name from Chris Behney and forward to him/her, we'd appreciate it. Thanks! Lynne Carithers Reuters 713-210-8507 (See attached file: Enron.NDA.8-25.BLKLINE.doc) ----------------------------------------------------------------- Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com Any views expressed in this message are those of  the  individual sender,  except  where  the sender specifically states them to be the views of Reuters Ltd. - Enron.NDA.8-25.BLKLINE.doc 
Joe, Attached is the termination revised w/Mary's changes.  Give me a call about one change. Larry Joe Hunter 09/13/2000 04:52 PM 
Susan, For this Termination and Payment.  Can you please use the attached and adjust it accordingly (Sept. payment delay)? Thanks, Joe 
I believe I forgot to include the name of this customer, which is Central Resources, Inc. 
Everyone, The current value of existing fmtm is ($3.2MM).  Fred and this customer have had a falling out and the customer has decided to unwind his position and take his business elsewhere.  Because of this, an opposite trade was entered into that exactly reciprocated like terms.  This trade has not yet been confirmed and is currently pending credit.  As a cost of agreeing to do this, the customer was to provide $5.25/bbl on the remaining 92,000 barrels.  This amount totals $483,000 which, in the normal course of doing business, is owed and due as of tommorrow, September 13.  Fred and his customer, while I was listening on a taped line, agreed to structure settlement of trade NY9319 as such: Amounts to be paid; $483,000 Premium Payment Owed and Due $192,375 Amount ENA owes this customer for Sept financial settlement - being withheld and netted against the $483M $290,625 net amount to be financed until final payment is made on September 30. $1,353  amount of interest on the principal, using interest rate of 10%, 17 days of tenor $291,978 exact amount to be paid on September 30 Please structure the above referenced terms into appropriate language for the confirmation of trade NY9319 and provide such language to the confirmation desk. Original deal done March 3, 2000:  NB4261 ENA Long Call 28.30  1,000/bbls/d Oct-Dec'00 ENA Short Put 22.50  1,000/bbls/d Oct-Dec'00 ENA Long Put 18.50  1,000/bbls/d Oct-Dec'00 New deal done September 11, 2000:  NY9319 Customer Long Call 28.30   1,000/bbls/d Oct-Dec'00 Customer Short Put 22.50  1,000/bbls/d Oct-Dec'00 Customer Long Put 18.50  1,000/bbls/d Oct-Dec'00 Let me know if I can be of any further assistance. Thanks Brant 
Per the request of Stephanie Sever, I am attaching a list responding to her request to confirm the attached counterparties ability to trade financial power products online.  Stephanie, the ones I said ""OK to open"" you will need to go in and open for financial power (from Legal only). Call me if you have any questions about specific counterparties. 
fyi, 
Per the request of Stephanie Sever, I am attaching a list responding to her request to confirm the attached counterparties ability to trade financial power products online.  Stephanie, the ones I said ""OK to open"" you will need to go in and open for financial power (from Legal only). Call me if you have any questions about specific counterparties. 
The EOL approvals for 09/14/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Who is going to take over this master from Rod?  They send it in comments and 
You are the woman! Tanya Rohauer 09/15/2000 10:15 AM 
send me down a copy of the comments and I (or someone else) will take a look at it. 
Who is going to take over this master from Rod?  They send it in comments and are calling for a response. 
Per instructions from Davis Minns in Australia, I have to shut down HS Energy Services from trading Australian power (not that they are going to!).  I am attaching an amended spreadsheet. 
Attached is a resend of the Deemed ISDA that Stepahnie sent to Diane Anderson 9n 8/13/00. 
Just an FYI, did you notice that the NYMEX is applying to the CFTC to get a 
The EOL approvals for 09/15/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Are you or Sara going to work on this? 
I thought I might try to sum up.  It seems to me that we both need to finalize the structure as well as co-ordinate across various groups such that we all know what each is doing with the view to funding on time by the end of next week. 1. As soon as possible next week (i.e. Monday) we need to finalize the swap structure including the credit and covenant package. 2. If there is not already a Term Sheet in place, it may be useful to have one prepared.  Frankly, it seems from my various discussions with Global Finance, Credit, Origination, Enron Corp., Royal Bank of Canada and its external counsel and our external counsel, that there are certain agreements, documents, deliverables and covenants that are being expected by, or exchanged between, the parties, but which are not being communicated among each other and we are therefore working at cross purposes.  Frankly, unless and until we know what the structure is to look like, what the credit and financial covenants are to look like, and what the documentation expectations are, it is difficult if not  impossible to prepare documentation.  For example: (a) I had a confusing conversation with the Bank as to the form of Guarantee they were expecting from Enron Corp.  I was trying to require the Bank to accept an Enron Corp. standard form Guarantee, whereas the Bank was looking for a long form Guarantee that includes the covenants, representations and warranties of Enron Corp. in its revolving credit facilities.  Based upon this disagreement, I left a message for Clement to the effect that we may have a problem to resolve.  However, Clement was kind enough to advise me by voice mail that in fact Enron Corp. does not have a problem with giving a long form Guarantee of this nature and that the form of Guarantee had in fact been provided (by whom I'm not sure) to the Bank. (b) The Bank was enquiring as to what would be the governing law of the Enron Corp. Guarantee, to which I advised it would be Texas law.  However, I now understand there may be some agreement (by whom I'm not sure) to have the Enron Corp. Guarantee governed by New York law. (c) In any event, I understand that the Bank will be looking for a form of enforceability opinion from Enron Corp.'s outside legal counsel with respect to the authorization, execution, delivery and enforceability of the Enron Corp. Guarantee, as well as certain conflicts of laws opinions with respect to the governing law of the Guarantee (Texas/New York) being enforceable. (d) In my discussions with the Bank this afternoon, it also became aware to me that the Bank is expecting external counsel legal opinions with respect to Enron Canada.  Blake, Cassels & Graydon is prepared to provide those legal opinions. (e) As noted above, I have discussed with the Bank that the governing law of the underlying swap documents would be Alberta, to which they seemed fine.  I suggested that Ontario law would also be acceptable. (f) I assume that Enron Canada ought to obtain legal opinions from the Bank's external counsel with respect to the documents and obligations of Swapco (and perhaps even the Bank), but I will need to have this confirmed. (g) It came to my attention during my conversations with the Bank this afternoon that Swapco (or financing SPV) is unaffiliated to the Bank.  This presents problems as, I understand for accounting purposes, the two swaps involving Enron Canada cannot be linked, for example by cross-defaults.  At the same time unaffiliated exposures under de-linked transactions may not be capable of being set-off.  We undertook to attempt to remedy this situation through broadening the set-off concepts under the ISDA Master Agreements. (h) I do not think the Bank frankly (nor anyone else) has a firm grasp on the credit/collateralization/margin requirements, which I think is dependent upon a final understanding of the swap structure. (i) From my discussions with the Bank, it seemed to me that they were not clear as to how their fees and costs would be repaid through the swap structure.  Although it might be as simple as adding these amounts to the principal amount of the swaps, I suggested that the Bank prepare a separate ""fee letter"" to recover its fees.  More problematically, the Bank was not clear as to how ""increased costs"" would be accounted for in the swap structure.  Generally speaking, a Bank credit agreement contains provisions that if there are increased costs of funding to the Bank as a result of a change in Bank regulations or lending or reserve requirements, those increased costs are flowed through.  They were not sure how this could be accommodated in a swap structure.  I suggested that there may be some way to fix this through a price adjustment mechanism in the fixed price or volumes or through a separate indemnification in the ""fee letter"". (j) The Bank is anxious to see paper, and I am not sure who is preparing the paper and consolidating it in a distribution package to the Bank.  For example, I think a package that includes all of the swap Master Agreements and related documentation (which I believe Mark T's group will prepare in Houston), the Enron Corp. Guarantee (which I've indicated above seems to have already been provided in draft to the Bank) and all other documentation needs to be sent to the Bank as soon as possible, as well as to Blake, Cassels & Graydon and Vinson and Elkins if they are to be giving legal opinions to the Bank in connection with the transaction.  Of course this depends on finalization of the structure as well as the credit and other covenants package.  In concept, I have told the Bank, and I believe the Bank agrees, that the form of the ISDA Master and related documentation would be the same as the form of ISDA Master which currently exists between ENA and Royal Bank of Canada, and the Bank asked that they at least be provided with that paper as soon as possible.  Perhaps Tana could look after delivering that as soon as possible, if not this afternoon, Monday morning. Frankly, I think this project, if it is to get funded on time, needs a measure of co-ordination and communication of internal and external expectations.  It may be worthwhile to convene a conference call with all relevant groups (i.e. Legal/Global Finance/Credit/Origination) on Monday morning. Regards, 
Clem called wanting to speak to someone about the guaranty issue.  Who should I direct him to? 
I thought I might try to sum up.  It seems to me that we both need to finalize the structure as well as co-ordinate across various groups such that we all know what each is doing with the view to funding on time by the end of next week. 1. As soon as possible next week (i.e. Monday) we need to finalize the swap structure including the credit and covenant package. 2. If there is not already a Term Sheet in place, it may be useful to have one prepared.  Frankly, it seems from my various discussions with Global Finance, Credit, Origination, Enron Corp., Royal Bank of Canada and its external counsel and our external counsel, that there are certain agreements, documents, deliverables and covenants that are being expected by, or exchanged between, the parties, but which are not being communicated among each other and we are therefore working at cross purposes.  Frankly, unless and until we know what the structure is to look like, what the credit and financial covenants are to look like, and what the documentation expectations are, it is difficult if not  impossible to prepare documentation.  For example: (a) I had a confusing conversation with the Bank as to the form of Guarantee they were expecting from Enron Corp.  I was trying to require the Bank to accept an Enron Corp. standard form Guarantee, whereas the Bank was looking for a long form Guarantee that includes the covenants, representations and warranties of Enron Corp. in its revolving credit facilities.  Based upon this disagreement, I left a message for Clement to the effect that we may have a problem to resolve.  However, Clement was kind enough to advise me by voice mail that in fact Enron Corp. does not have a problem with giving a long form Guarantee of this nature and that the form of Guarantee had in fact been provided (by whom I'm not sure) to the Bank. (b) The Bank was enquiring as to what would be the governing law of the Enron Corp. Guarantee, to which I advised it would be Texas law.  However, I now understand there may be some agreement (by whom I'm not sure) to have the Enron Corp. Guarantee governed by New York law. (c) In any event, I understand that the Bank will be looking for a form of enforceability opinion from Enron Corp.'s outside legal counsel with respect to the authorization, execution, delivery and enforceability of the Enron Corp. Guarantee, as well as certain conflicts of laws opinions with respect to the governing law of the Guarantee (Texas/New York) being enforceable. (d) In my discussions with the Bank this afternoon, it also became aware to me that the Bank is expecting external counsel legal opinions with respect to Enron Canada.  Blake, Cassels & Graydon is prepared to provide those legal opinions. (e) As noted above, I have discussed with the Bank that the governing law of the underlying swap documents would be Alberta, to which they seemed fine.  I suggested that Ontario law would also be acceptable. (f) I assume that Enron Canada ought to obtain legal opinions from the Bank's external counsel with respect to the documents and obligations of Swapco (and perhaps even the Bank), but I will need to have this confirmed. (g) It came to my attention during my conversations with the Bank this afternoon that Swapco (or financing SPV) is unaffiliated to the Bank.  This presents problems as, I understand for accounting purposes, the two swaps involving Enron Canada cannot be linked, for example by cross-defaults.  At the same time unaffiliated exposures under de-linked transactions may not be capable of being set-off.  We undertook to attempt to remedy this situation through broadening the set-off concepts under the ISDA Master Agreements. (h) I do not think the Bank frankly (nor anyone else) has a firm grasp on the credit/collateralization/margin requirements, which I think is dependent upon a final understanding of the swap structure. (i) From my discussions with the Bank, it seemed to me that they were not clear as to how their fees and costs would be repaid through the swap structure.  Although it might be as simple as adding these amounts to the principal amount of the swaps, I suggested that the Bank prepare a separate ""fee letter"" to recover its fees.  More problematically, the Bank was not clear as to how ""increased costs"" would be accounted for in the swap structure.  Generally speaking, a Bank credit agreement contains provisions that if there are increased costs of funding to the Bank as a result of a change in Bank regulations or lending or reserve requirements, those increased costs are flowed through.  They were not sure how this could be accommodated in a swap structure.  I suggested that there may be some way to fix this through a price adjustment mechanism in the fixed price or volumes or through a separate indemnification in the ""fee letter"". (j) The Bank is anxious to see paper, and I am not sure who is preparing the paper and consolidating it in a distribution package to the Bank.  For example, I think a package that includes all of the swap Master Agreements and related documentation (which I believe Mark T's group will prepare in Houston), the Enron Corp. Guarantee (which I've indicated above seems to have already been provided in draft to the Bank) and all other documentation needs to be sent to the Bank as soon as possible, as well as to Blake, Cassels & Graydon and Vinson and Elkins if they are to be giving legal opinions to the Bank in connection with the transaction.  Of course this depends on finalization of the structure as well as the credit and other covenants package.  In concept, I have told the Bank, and I believe the Bank agrees, that the form of the ISDA Master and related documentation would be the same as the form of ISDA Master which currently exists between ENA and Royal Bank of Canada, and the Bank asked that they at least be provided with that paper as soon as possible.  Perhaps Tana could look after delivering that as soon as possible, if not this afternoon, Monday morning. Frankly, I think this project, if it is to get funded on time, needs a measure of co-ordination and communication of internal and external expectations.  It may be worthwhile to convene a conference call with all relevant groups (i.e. Legal/Global Finance/Credit/Origination) on Monday morning. Regards, 
Per our conversation, attached is the form of confirmation we use when we adopt by reference the preprinted form of ISDA Agreement into a form of confirmation. 
Fred wanted to get this draft out today, so I had to get it back from Mary 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am enclosing a redlined draft of the guaranty.   Please let me (713/853-3399) or Sara (713/853-5620) know if this change meets with your approval.  Further, I am in the process of drafting the Enron Corp. Guaranty with respect to ECT Investments, Inc. and hope to have it to you shortly. 
Attached is termination revised with Mary's changes.  Per Mary's conv. w/Fred, if the Counterparty failed to make payments hereunder, the contract would not be void ab initio, but instead, any payments to the counterparty would be offset against any amounts owing to us. Larry Joe Hunter 09/15/2000 11:31 AM 
Tana, Fred wanted to be very specific about the amounts due.  Can you have a look at the attached and let me know if it will fly?  See Brant's e-mail for numbers. Thanks, Joe 
Mike, Jason Peters, who was a lawyer seconded with us from Andrews & Kurth, has now gone back to A&K, but is still doing some work for us.  Is there some way for us to get him access to the Financial Trading Agreement database?  He is a lawyer, and is bound by client confidentiality with respect to all the information in the database, so I don't think we need to worry about granting him security access.  Can we get him access? 
Tana:  Can Jason gain access to the database for the purpose of 
I should be available anytime this week, with the caveat, we have a big deal we're trying to close by Friday, and it could heat up at any moment.  How about tomorrow at 1:00 pm? Corey Hollander@ENRON 09/18/2000 03:48 PM 
Tana, I met with Mark Taylor two weeks ago to discuss legal's business requirements for the next generation Global Counterparty System.  He told me that you would be a better resource than he for counterparty issues. Do you have time to meet with me this week for 30 minutes?  Attached is a list of questions I have about your needs in relation to the GCP system. Please let me know what time you will be available and I'll setup a meeting. Regards, Corey Hollander 
I have a meeting at 2:00pm.  How about 11:00 am? Corey Hollander@ENRON 09/18/2000 04:50 PM 
I have a meeting at 1pm.  How about 2pm? 
I should be available anytime this week, with the caveat, we have a big deal we're trying to close by Friday, and it could heat up at any moment.  How about tomorrow at 1:00 pm? Corey Hollander@ENRON 09/18/2000 03:48 PM 
Tana, I met with Mark Taylor two weeks ago to discuss legal's business requirements for the next generation Global Counterparty System.  He told me that you would be a better resource than he for counterparty issues. Do you have time to meet with me this week for 30 minutes?  Attached is a list of questions I have about your needs in relation to the GCP system. Please let me know what time you will be available and I'll setup a meeting. Regards, Corey Hollander 
The revised form of ISDA exhibit.doc (which contains the credit support annex and letter of credit forms) has been moved into the attorney forms bank under atty.fms/current forms/isdaexh.doc.  The old form of ISDAexh.doc is now under ""old forms"" in the attorney forms bank as atty.fms/old forms/oldISDAexh.doc. Again, per my last email, the revised Multicurrency Schedule is already in attorney forms.  You may want to circulate blacklined drafts.  The Index to the swap forms is now also located in the attorney forms bank for your 
Does any of the below work for you? 
There are only two ways that I can think of that would allow him to access the Financial Trading Agreements information if he is no longer with Enron: 1.) if A&K uses Notes and has been granted a connection to our network and are cross-certified to access the ecthou_ln1 server 2.) Jason has a desktop/laptop with Terminal Server Account access to our network and he continues to maintain an Enron NT account and Notes ID (or Cross-Certified A&K Notes ID). Please keep in mind, my Notes administration knowledge is a bit rusty and limited, but I'm pretty sure that this is the way it would have to work.  In any case, remote access in this capacity should be coordinated through Information Risk Management/Notes Administration.    I'm sure this is not very clear, maybe you can call me and we can discuss. Mike 3-3363 
Mike, Jason Peters, who was a lawyer seconded with us from Andrews & Kurth, has now gone back to A&K, but is still doing some work for us.  Is there some way for us to get him access to the Financial Trading Agreement database?  He is a lawyer, and is bound by client confidentiality with respect to all the information in the database, so I don't think we need to worry about granting him security access.  Can we get him access? 
Tana:  Can Jason gain access to the database for the purpose of entering/reviewing comments?  Sara 
The EOL approvals for 09/18/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Let's say 2:30 pm tomorrow and hope for the best! Corey Hollander@ENRON 09/18/2000 05:04 PM 
I have a Doctor's appt tomorrow at 9:30am, and I'm not sure I'll be back by 11am.  I can do it anytime after 2pm tomorrow or anytime on Wed. Corey 
As we spoke I got scheduled for a 2:30 too, so how about 3:30 tomorrow? Corey Hollander@ENRON 09/18/2000 05:04 PM 
I have a Doctor's appt tomorrow at 9:30am, and I'm not sure I'll be back by 11am.  I can do it anytime after 2pm tomorrow or anytime on Wed. Corey 
This request has been completed. Also, I spoke with a contact in IRM and they said that the best way for Jason to keep is access would be to maintain his NT and Notes accounts and have him set up his Laptop/Desktop with a Terminal Server client.  With this Terminal Server client he can access the Enron network as if he's in the office (a little/lot slower). To get Terminal Server:  from his Enron Corp desktop he should click ""Start-Programs-Utilities-Make Terminal Server Client Disks""  -  Then of course he needs to install TS on his machine at A&K (or home). Let me know if you/he has any questions. Mike 3-3363 
Mike, How can these people access the database? Michael Neves 09/18/2000 05:36 PM 
This request has been completed. Also, I spoke with a contact in IRM and they said that the best way for Jason to keep is access would be to maintain his NT and Notes accounts and have him set up his Laptop/Desktop with a Terminal Server client.  With this Terminal Server client he can access the Enron network as if he's in the office (a little/lot slower). To get Terminal Server:  from his Enron Corp desktop he should click ""Start-Programs-Utilities-Make Terminal Server Client Disks""  -  Then of course he needs to install TS on his machine at A&K (or home). Let me know if you/he has any questions. Mike 3-3363 
The Clickpaper approvals for 9/18/00 are attached below. Regards, 
I need the following 3 files 1st thing: Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc. Ontario Power Generation Royal Bank of Canada/Enron Canada Corp. 
Online would like to open this counterparty immediately for trading.  Can you 
Per our conv. earlier, attached is our standard form of Enron Corp. Guaranty. 
Peter, We revised the incumbency certificates for our U.S. master swap agreements to include the authority of the officer as well as the officer's incumbency. I made the same changes to the Canadian form, but don't want to make any final changes to the Canadian form without your approval.  When you get a minute can you take a look at it and see if the change meets with your approval. Nella, I am enclosing the current form of certificate as well as the revised one (which is #1 documents below).  Can you print them out for Peter. Thanks! 
Attached are the two ISDA's. 
We have been pressured by the online team to open up all counterparties to trade financial unless we have a LEGAL reason not to trade with them.  With both those counterparties, you are correct, it is the companies' intention and direction that we trade financial with those entities, but still for online I have to say ""yes"" unless I have a ""legal"" reason to say ""no"". Kim S Theriot 09/19/2000 02:11 PM 
Tana, We were reviewing the attached list and had a few questions on the Counterparty Names: Aquilla Energy Marketing Corporation  .....We are trading financial deals with them under the name Utilicorp United Inc. Coral Power LLC    .....We are using Coral Energy Holding L.P. (this is the entity with whom we have the Master Agreement) Let me know what you think on these two... Kim Theriot 
Per the request of Stephanie Sever, I am attaching a list responding to her request to confirm the attached counterparties ability to trade financial power products online.  Stephanie, the ones I said ""OK to open"" you will need to go in and open for financial power (from Legal only). Call me if you have any questions about specific counterparties. 
The EOL approvals for 09/19/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
All of the counterparties on today's list are ESP's, so I will approve them for all financial products.  If the aren't ESP's I would not approve them for financial products including Australian financial products.  Further, if they cannot meet the ESP test on their own, i.e., they are relying on a parent guaranty or a letter of credit to make them an ESP, I would approve them for all financial products, except Australian power (but they could trade weather per our earlier emails). David Minns@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 09/19/2000 04:18 PM 
Assuming they want trade Australian power do  they have USD6million in assets? 
The EOL approvals for 09/19/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
I was just about to call you when I got your email.  Holly called and she has a table to fill at an awards banquet (some women's professional group or something) and wants to know if you want to join us.  A bunch of her girlfriends are going, me, Lucinda, I think Carol....anyway, it's Saturday night at 7:00 pm.  She said it should be really boring (so I put it on my calendar as ""boring awards banquet""), but with all the girls at one table we'll misbehave and have fun.  I hope you can join us.  Let me know and I'll reserve you a spot w/Holly. The thing on your house and townhome sounds exciting.  When can I see it?! ""Patti Young"" <pyoung@pdq.net> 09/18/2000 05:44 PM 
> > > That job I passed on your resume to in our group, I checked, and they still > haven't started interviewing people yet, since Barbara is on vacation dropping > her daughter off at college. > > 
I'm having a little online brain drain today...am I correct in my thinking 
Can you provide Stephanie Sever with the Online team view access to the referenced database.  Can you let us know when the access has been granted. 
This list is all amended counterparties, most of them being opened up for financial power.  My records reflect that all of them were already open for financial products, except the three I have marked.  If you run across any others that you show as not being open for financial, let me know, because all of the counterparties on this list are ok for financial. 
Also, on this list, my records reflect that Superior Natural Gas Corporation was shut down for physical power.  If you records do not reflect the same, can you shut them down...thanks! 
This list is all amended counterparties, most of them being opened up for financial power.  My records reflect that all of them were already open for financial products, except the three I have marked.  If you run across any others that you show as not being open for financial, let me know, because all of the counterparties on this list are ok for financial. 
I still haven't received that list you mentioned of counterparties in 
I don't know about you, but I LOVE lists with only one counterparty to approve, how about you?!! 
I have a database where I maintain my online approval, and my the basis for my approvals/declines.  If you want to review counterparties we have previously approved/disapproved and why, or want to go in and to see what I approved on a specific counterparty, this would be the place to go.  Would 
Well, I do believe this makes 450!  A nice round number if I do say so myself! 
We have received an executed Master Agreement: Type of Contract:  ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) 
At a ratio of 10:1, you should have your 4th one signed and have the fifth one on the way... Marie Heard@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 09/19/2000 05:40 PM 
ONLY 450!  Why, I thought you guys hit 450 a long time ago. Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-3907 Fax:  (713) 646-8537 Marie_Heard@Enron.net Tana Jones@ECT 09/19/00 05:34 PM 
Well, I do believe this makes 450!  A nice round number if I do say so myself! 
We have received an executed Master Agreement: Type of Contract:  ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) 
It seems like it should be more, but I have review over 1300 counterparties 
Straight and to the point! Brent Hendry@ENRON 09/19/2000 06:00 PM 
See responses below.  Let me know if you have any other questions or concerns. Thanks, Brent David Forster 09/19/2000 04:53 PM 
Do you mean we are now approved to use the North American forms of the Electronic Trading Agreement and the Password Application for companies located in Bermuda? Yes Does this approval apply to financial products only?  At this time, yes. Are there any other restrictions?  No. Thanks, Dave Brent Hendry 09/19/2000 11:48 AM 
Bermuda has been approved as a jurisdiction for all financial products using the ENA format of GTC with New York Law. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
We have received a proposed assignment from PPL Corporation to PPL Energy Plus, LLC wherein they would like to assign their financial transactions (two), any guaranty relating thereto (do we have one covering financial?), and any master agreement (we have no financial agreement with them).  Is this OK with Credit?  I am having a copy of the assignment walked down to you.  If 
I left Bill Ernstaft a message.  Hopefully I'll hear back from him after lunch. Janelle Scheuer 09/20/2000 10:33 AM 
Hi Tana....here's the latest add'l info.  Can we get on this right away, so hopefully we can execute a transaction on Friday.  Thanks. 
Tana, Peter asked me to e-mail this to you: AECO =01&C=018 MONTHLY INDEX (Canadian) CONTRACT PRICE:The Contract Price, for each delivery Month, shall be a p= rice in=20 Canadian dollars per GJ equal to the AECO =01&C=018 Monthly Index, minus/pl= us Cdn.=20 $____ per GJ, where:  =01&AECO =01&C=018 Monthly Index=018 means the price = in Canadian=20 dollars per GJ in the =01&Avg=018 column published in the table =01&Canadia= n Natural=20 Gas Supply Prices=018, in the Canadian Gas Price Reporter, in the row for= =20 =01&Alberta-AECO =01&C=018 & NIT One-Month Spot=018, for the applicable del= ivery Month. NOTE:  Please insert appropriate =01&Seller=01,s Payment=018 if =01&minu= s=018 is used in=20 Contract Price and if Customer is the Seller.  Do not insert =01&Seller=01,= s=20 Payment=018 if Enron Canada is Seller. 
Hi Tana....here's the latest add'l info.  Can we get on this right away, so hopefully we can execute a transaction on Friday.  Thanks. 
Tana... see below.... laywer is Bill Ernstafht (212) 468-6118 
As usual, you are the best! Greg Johnston 09/20/2000 03:09 PM 
Rick, could you please let me know how I need to set up the execution lines on the two ISDA Master agreements for RBC and Bow Valley.  Does the bank require two signature lines?  What is the wording you need for Bow Valley's execution line (I assume it will be something like ""Bow Valley Trust, by its duly appointed Trustee, X""? Can you let me know as soon as possible so that I can have the standard forms of the actual ISDA agreement and Credit Support Annex prepared for execution tomorrow.  For logistics, can you also let me know whether the people who will be executing the documents on behalf of RBC and Bow Valley in Calgary or Toronto. Thanks Greg Johnston 
The EOL approvals for 09/20/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
We have received the executed Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of 9/1/00 wherein Coral Energy Resources, L.P. assigned to Coral Energy Holding, L.P. an ""oops"" EOL trade # 40063 it did under the wrong password.  A copy 
That job is with Bob Williams, the litigation attorney for our international company.  Bob is a great guy, probably one of the funniest people I have ever known.  It also might be a good job for you because he promoted his last administrative assistant to paralegal. ""Patti Young"" <pyoung@pdq.net> 09/20/2000 11:51 AM 
> > I was just about to call you when I got your email.  Holly called and she > has a table to fill at an awards banquet (some women's professional group > or something) and wants to know if you want to join us.  A bunch of her > girlfriends are going, me, Lucinda, I think Carol....anyway, it's Saturday > night at 7:00 pm.  She said it should be really boring (so I put it on my > calendar as ""boring awards banquet""), but with all the girls at one table > we'll misbehave and have fun.  I hope you can join us.  Let me know and > I'll reserve you a spot w/Holly. > > The thing on your house and townhome sounds exciting.  When can I see it?! > > > 
> > > > > > > > That job I passed on your resume to in our group, I checked, and they > still > > haven't started interviewing people yet, since Barbara is on vacation > dropping > > her daughter off at college. > > > > > > > > 
Tana I need to use Bermudean counsel today on a transaction and understand we have recently selected Bermudan counsel re EOL.  Please could you provide me with contact details. Many thanks and kind regards. 
comments to the swap docuemnts 
- MACLEOD-.DOC 
Paul, I just spoke to Brent Hendry who worked on the Bermuda law advice, and he said he sent you the name of counsel.  I will also sent to you tonight a copy of the advice we just got with respect to derivative transactions and online transactions. Paul Simons 09/21/2000 06:11 AM 
Tana I need to use Bermudean counsel today on a transaction and understand we have recently selected Bermudan counsel re EOL.  Please could you provide me with contact details. Many thanks and kind regards. Paul 
Too late, already sent it. Paul Simons 09/21/2000 10:21 AM 
I don't need the advice thanks (but Justin might) 
Paul, I just spoke to Brent Hendry who worked on the Bermuda law advice, and he said he sent you the name of counsel.  I will also sent to you tonight a copy of the advice we just got with respect to derivative transactions and online transactions. Paul Simons 09/21/2000 06:11 AM 
Tana I need to use Bermudean counsel today on a transaction and understand we have recently selected Bermudan counsel re EOL.  Please could you provide me with contact details. Many thanks and kind regards. Paul 
I would love to have the plants as long as they can take direct sun...can they? Did you see on the news last night that they arrested 44 people for participating in that pyramid scheme you were telling me about?  There's an article about it in the KHOU TV website. ""Patti Young"" <pyoung@pdq.net> 09/21/2000 02:27 PM 
> > That job is with Bob Williams, the litigation attorney for our > international company.  Bob is a great guy, probably one of the funniest > people I have ever known.  It also might be a good job for you because he > promoted his last administrative assistant to paralegal. > > > 
> > > > > > I was just about to call you when I got your email.  Holly called and she > > has a table to fill at an awards banquet (some women's professional group > > or something) and wants to know if you want to join us.  A bunch of her > > girlfriends are going, me, Lucinda, I think Carol....anyway, it's > Saturday > > night at 7:00 pm.  She said it should be really boring (so I put it on my > > calendar as ""boring awards banquet""), but with all the girls at one table > > we'll misbehave and have fun.  I hope you can join us.  Let me know and > > I'll reserve you a spot w/Holly. > > > > The thing on your house and townhome sounds exciting.  When can I see > it?! > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > > > > > > That job I passed on your resume to in our group, I checked, and they > > still > > > haven't started interviewing people yet, since Barbara is on vacation > > dropping > > > her daughter off at college. > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > 
Per your request, attached is the form of Duke Capital Corporation Guaranty. 
The EOL approvals for 09/21/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
The Clickpaper approvals for 9/21/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am attaching our current from of ISDA Schedule for governmental entities and our sample form of legal opinion for such entities.  With respect to NYPA, we do have a copy of an authorization to hedge approved by the Board of Trustees of NYPA that they faxed us a year ago and I will fax a copy of it over to you shortly. 
We have received the executed Letter Agreement dated 8/23/00 amending the Electronic Trading Agreement with the referenced Counterparty.  Copies will 
FUNB sits stalled on my desk waiting for me to have time to work on it.  We are in the miiddle of a rush with Financial Power counterparties in need immediate assistance (many of them govt'ls which are demanding my attention) and structured financing w/swaps in the middle and I'm just putting out fires.  That master is really not a priority at all for ENA, and it is only Enron.Credit.com wanting to mirror it that is giving it any priority.  What is your proposed timing for a deal on that one? Clare.Godson@AllenOvery.com 09/22/2000 10:26 AM 
Tanna, Thanks for your help on the Goldman Sachs and Deutsche negotiations.  If you could keep me posted on the timing of the Deutsche agreements being put in place that would be really helpful.  I also have another quick request and that relates to the ISDA Master Agreement with FUNB.  I have spoken to Delene Travella at FUNB.  They are negotiating an ECTRIC Schedule with you in Houston which they want to finalise before commencing EnronCredit.com's negotiation.  Can you give me an update on where this negotiation stands and how long before it is likely to be finalised? Many thanks, Clare Godson ====================================================================== This email is confidential and may also be privileged.  If you are not the intended recipient please notify us immediately by telephoning +44 (20) 7330 3000 and requesting the Technology Services Helpdesk. You should not copy it or use it for any purpose nor disclose its contents to any other person. Allen & Overy One New Change London EC4M 9QQ Tel:+44 (20) 7330 3000 Fax: +44 (20) 7330 9999 General Email: Helpdesk@allenovery.com www: http://www.allenovery.com Allen & Overy is a solicitors' partnership.  A list of the names of partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the above office.  The partners are either solicitors or registered foreign lawyers. ====================================================================== 
It isn't clear to me whether you are on for this banquet tomorrow so I can RSVP to Holly! ""Patti Young"" <pyoung@pdq.net> 09/21/2000 03:34 PM 
> > I would love to have the plants as long as they can take direct sun...can > they? > > Did you see on the news last night that they arrested 44 people for > participating in that pyramid scheme you were telling me about?  There's an > article about it in the KHOU TV website. > > > > 
> > > > > > That job is with Bob Williams, the litigation attorney for our > > international company.  Bob is a great guy, probably one of the funniest > > people I have ever known.  It also might be a good job for you because he > > promoted his last administrative assistant to paralegal. > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > > > I was just about to call you when I got your email.  Holly called and > she > > > has a table to fill at an awards banquet (some women's professional > group > > > or something) and wants to know if you want to join us.  A bunch of her > > > girlfriends are going, me, Lucinda, I think Carol....anyway, it's > > Saturday > > > night at 7:00 pm.  She said it should be really boring (so I put it on > my > > > calendar as ""boring awards banquet""), but with all the girls at one > table > > > we'll misbehave and have fun.  I hope you can join us.  Let me know and > > > I'll reserve you a spot w/Holly. > > > > > > The thing on your house and townhome sounds exciting.  When can I see > > it?! > > > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > That job I passed on your resume to in our group, I checked, and they > > > still > > > > haven't started interviewing people yet, since Barbara is on vacation > > > dropping > > > > her daughter off at college. > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > 
Per my conversation this morning with the lawyer at NYPA, they would like to transact business on a going forward basis under the attached form of what we consider an ""ISDA Confirmation"" (it seemed to me their lawyer thought this document was a sufficient ISDA Master).  Sara has a call into him to get his thoughts about this document  Per my conversations w/Sara, we would like to get our standard governmental form of ISDA Master in place.  We wonder what your thoughts are on his document.  Further, he seemed quite firm that they would not be issuing a legal opinion, but would give us a certified copy of the resolution I am about to fax to you.   We look forward to getting your comments. - CFD1.DOC 
I was a little dismayed after our lunch when you disclosed the number of broadband masters potentially close to signature. However, I was a little cheered up when I got back and checked with the Swap Group and found out we have 13 masters out for signatures right now.  It still may be hard to beat you at your going rate...but, all I have to say is we're still in the 
Inc. 
FYI, I will be preparing this assignment for signature. 
Inc. Tana, The following trades that were down predominantly on EOL need to be re-booked from Aquila Energy Marketing Corporation to Utilicorp United Inc. Let me know if you have any questions. Best regards, tm 9/20/00 QO3341.1 438137 QO3350.1 438148 QO3483.1 438271 QO3601.1 438389 QO3788.1 438605 9/21/00 QO4798.1 439512 QO4802.1 439523 QO4810.1 439545 QO4821.1 439592 QO4826.1 439605 QO4829.1 439613 
On the list for 9/19/00: 1.  On the counterparty styled ""United States Department of Interior"" only, Leslie is not permitting them to trade power, however, she will give them read access. 2.  Public Service Electric & Gas Co. - My notes show I already opened them for financial power On the list for 9/21/00:  I am OK for shutting Aquila Energy Marketing Corporation down for financial, since they are now trading financial out of Utilicorp.  However, I didn't want to put ""X's"" in all those darn boxes, so I hope by my note only it will do the job.  I am also preparing an assignment of the online trades that I will send to the Confirm Desk when it is executed. 
The execution documents were sent over to Duke Energy yesterday.  I spoke to them this morning and they we going to forward the documents internally for signature.  I, or Marie upon her return from vacation, will keep you posted 
I have forwarded your email on to Mary Cook, she is actually the attorney working on the transaction.  I am a paralegal.  Her direct number is 713/3457732. Cossette.Helene@hydro.qc.ca 09/22/2000 03:26 PM 
The EOL approvals for 09/22/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
You're welcome. Camille Gerard@ENRON 09/22/2000 05:16 PM 
Thanks!! 
Attached are revised commodity swap confirms.  I didn't change the rate swap and we're still waiting for input from the bank. 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am enclosing clean and blacklined drafts of each of the Bow River Trust and Royal Bank of Canada ISDA Schedules. 
Leslie Hansen asked me to forward to you our draft list of Legal contacts for online trading issues, and see if there is anyone you deal with on a regular basis that I may not know of that we need to add to the list. 
I hope you're OK?!   You probably don't remember (especially after getting hit by that polo ball!), but Barclays is one you negotiated on your secondment here oh so many years ago. It's always good to hear from you... Justin Boyd 09/25/2000 11:11 AM 
thanks tana! j ps. i got hit by a polo ball on saturday! Matthew Dawson 25/09/2000 17:04 
Hi tana We have recently negotiated and signed an Isda with Barclays Bank ,(ECTRIC being the Enron Entity) which included some additional clauses in the Schedule( regarding Enron online trading) which Barclays want to include in the already existing ISDA  between ENA and Barclays. The details and The suggested Amendment  Agreement are included below. Please could you take a look at this  wording.The clauses are identical to those that we have argeed in the latest Isda. Good to speak to you this afternoon and I will let you know how Edmund is doing. Regards Matt D 
matt you will need to pass this by tana jones in the US for approval j Matthew Dawson 25/09/2000 15:03 
Hi  Justin, Just to let you know the Guarantee arrived from Houston this morning. I have sent it on to Leigh. Also she requested that we amend the other Existing ISDA Master Agreement Barclays has with Enron North America, dated 13 Jan 1994 to include the Part 5(h) and(o)  wording dealing with  Procedures for entering into Transactions(Online and others), and also the Part 6 wording dealing with Additional Provisions for Commodity Derivatives Transactions. I attatch her proposed amendment agreement. The wording of the clauses is identical to that which was agreed in the ECTRIC  Master that has just been signed, although the numbering of Part 5 (o) differs in the recent Isda with ECTRIC. Barclays cannot trade with ENA until the Isda has been amended.  Are we able to accommodate the   agreement? 
Obviously, you haven't lost your touch! Justin Boyd 09/25/2000 11:35 AM 
...and what a cracker of a document it was! j 
I hope you're OK?!   You probably don't remember (especially after getting hit by that polo ball!), but Barclays is one you negotiated on your secondment here oh so many years ago. It's always good to hear from you... Justin Boyd 09/25/2000 11:11 AM 
thanks tana! j ps. i got hit by a polo ball on saturday! Matthew Dawson 25/09/2000 17:04 
Hi tana We have recently negotiated and signed an Isda with Barclays Bank ,(ECTRIC being the Enron Entity) which included some additional clauses in the Schedule( regarding Enron online trading) which Barclays want to include in the already existing ISDA  between ENA and Barclays. The details and The suggested Amendment  Agreement are included below. Please could you take a look at this  wording.The clauses are identical to those that we have argeed in the latest Isda. Good to speak to you this afternoon and I will let you know how Edmund is doing. Regards Matt D 
matt you will need to pass this by tana jones in the US for approval j Matthew Dawson 25/09/2000 15:03 
Hi  Justin, Just to let you know the Guarantee arrived from Houston this morning. I have sent it on to Leigh. Also she requested that we amend the other Existing ISDA Master Agreement Barclays has with Enron North America, dated 13 Jan 1994 to include the Part 5(h) and(o)  wording dealing with  Procedures for entering into Transactions(Online and others), and also the Part 6 wording dealing with Additional Provisions for Commodity Derivatives Transactions. I attatch her proposed amendment agreement. The wording of the clauses is identical to that which was agreed in the ECTRIC  Master that has just been signed, although the numbering of Part 5 (o) differs in the recent Isda with ECTRIC. Barclays cannot trade with ENA until the Isda has been amended.  Are we able to accommodate the   agreement? 
Just a note to let you know that per my conversation with Tanya, after review by Brent, today I will be sending out am amendment to BMO allowing for the provision of Cash as Eligible Collateral under the ISDA.  When we get this in signed I will send my usual email out to the world explaining this amendment, but you may want to think about what procedures you will need to put in place to make sure this happens EVERY time we take collateral in (not to mention, we will also have to pay Canadian counsel to file releases as well , and this will cost us money too!  We don't want to have to do this too often.) 
Ask and you shall receive... 
Yes, except for weather, the financial GTC's are designed to cover all energy commodities. Dianne Seib 09/25/2000 03:34 PM 
Tana, Enron Canada Corp. will be offering a Canadian power financial swap on EOL within the next couple of weeks.  Can you confirm that the current EOL financial GTC is sufficient for power trades. Thanks! Dianne 
Per a conv. I just had with John Arnold, Shankman is not trading natural gas 
The EOL approvals for 09/25/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
We have received the executed Letter Agreement dated August 23, 2000 amending the Electronic Trading Agreement with the referenced counterparty.  Copies will be distributed to Frank Davis and to Peter Keohane for the Enron Canada 
Per our conversation, attached is the proposed form of amendment to the ISDA Master to provide for cash collateral under the Credit Support Annex.  Please call me at 713/853-3399 or Tanya Rohauer in our Credit Department at 713/853-3263 if you have any comments or questions. 
Per our conversation, the above counterparty is approved by Legal to trade online physical pulp & paper only.  We cannot trade financial until Credit receives financial statements and can determine whether they are an eligible 
Chris, Per our conversation, I am attaching  a sample form of ISDA for both a Canadian corporate and a Canadian governmental.  With the governmental, the proposed form of legal opinion attached to the ISDA Schedule would have to be modified depending on your particular situtation (see footnotes in opinion). As I also mentioned, we are making some revisions to the guaranty we are getting from Hydro-Quebec in response to comments from counsel, and we may want to make some of the same changes to guarantees we receive from any governmental guarantor.  If you end up having a governmental guarantor, let me know and I'll send you down the revisions. By copy of this email to Joe Hunter on the Confirmation Desk, I am asking him to email you copies of the form of Omnibus Confirmation and Annex A thereto for an ECC/Canadian Counterparty Deal.  I have to say that if you end up transacting with a governmental entity, our form of confirmation will not include the reps and warranties required to transact with such counterparties, since we never trade financial with governmentals prior to execution of a master.  If you go down that road we may have to come up with some kind of form, but the best route is to get the ISDA in place first. 
The bottom of this email will explain my email to Gaffer. 
Tana - I am going to need the materials referred to in Greg's emails very soon.  Is there a problem?  If so let me know, if not, please sent the documents. Did you contact Steve Ashbourne at Blakes in Toronto? Regards CJG ps. How is your new pad working out? 
Tana, I know we exchanged a couple of e-mails since the below about you providing to me the Canadian financial trading precedents described below, but I forget where it was left.  We do need to get these precedents to the counterparty as soon as possible and I apologize for not following up on it. As suggested, I need the actual base ISDA agreement, paragraph 13, credit support annex, etc. as well as the short form financial GTC but I do not need the municipal government schedule at this point.  Could you gather together these precedents and forward them directly to Chris Gaffney in Toronto? Let me know if you need anything else from me. Cheers Greg 
Tana, Enron Canada is currently negotiating a transaction with 6 major municipalities in Ontario (the ""G6"") to provide various services to a company those 6 entities are setting up, which services will include physical and financial trading (both gas and electricity).  John Suttle is working with Jan Wilson of our Toronto office to set the credit terms applicable to this entity on both the physical and financial trading side, but they have not yet made a final determination.  In the interim, the G6 has requested that we send them a copy of our precedent form of master financial trading agreement (both the ISDA and our short form financial GTC).  I assume you get requests like this all the time and was hoping that you could e-mail to me (i) the ISDA, credit support annex, Paragraph 13, etc. that we would typically put in place between ECC and a Canadian counterparty to financially trade gas and electricity in Canada (ie. incorporating the Canadian provisions), leaving the credit terms blank for the time being and (ii) the financial GTC we use for Canadian counterparties. Call me if you have any questions or if there are any problems with preparing and forwarding these documents to the counterparty. Thanks Greg 
Thanks Joe, you're the best! Larry Joe Hunter 09/26/2000 03:34 PM 
Requested form of GTC Confirmations attached: 
Chris, Per our conversation, I am attaching  a sample form of ISDA for both a Canadian corporate and a Canadian governmental.  With the governmental, the proposed form of legal opinion attached to the ISDA Schedule would have to be modified depending on your particular situtation (see footnotes in opinion). As I also mentioned, we are making some revisions to the guaranty we are getting from Hydro-Quebec in response to comments from counsel, and we may want to make some of the same changes to guarantees we receive from any governmental guarantor.  If you end up having a governmental guarantor, let me know and I'll send you down the revisions. By copy of this email to Joe Hunter on the Confirmation Desk, I am asking him to email you copies of the form of Omnibus Confirmation and Annex A thereto for an ECC/Canadian Counterparty Deal.  I have to say that if you end up transacting with a governmental entity, our form of confirmation will not include the reps and warranties required to transact with such counterparties, since we never trade financial with governmentals prior to execution of a master.  If you go down that road we may have to come up with some kind of form, but the best route is to get the ISDA in place first. 
I'm sad (sniff...sniff...sniff...)... 
Please add Lisa Lees to the distribution list for the EOL Profiles and remove Frank Davis.  Let me know if you have any questions. Thanks, 
Julian, The ""Confirmation"" will be the actual written Confirmation, which confirms in writing the terms of the deal agreed to on the phone.  I don't know if what they're looking for is a form of Confirmation (not deal specific) of what a Confirmation might look like if they did a trade, or if you actually have done or are proposing a particular trade and need to see the Confirmation filled in with the proposed deal terms.  I left Roni Cappadonna with Duke a voicemail asking her which specifically she was looking for.  As soon as I hear from her I'll get her what she needs.  If you have any more questions, 
The EOL approvals for 09/26/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Russell, I spoke  to the cpy about this, and what it turned out he wanted was the Local Currency ISDA form.  I gave that redraft to Mary to sign off on the same day I wrote that note, but she's been too busy to look at it, and the file is now MIA from her office.  I'll check with her tomorrow and she what she did with it. Russell Diamond 09/26/2000 05:53 PM 
Samantha, Tana, I have attached an amended credit worksheet for the referenced counterparty. This amended worksheet includes a Guaranty from its parent company of $5MM, thus increasing the collateral threshold to $5MM, and amending other credit covenants. Per the Legal Comment in the Master Swap Lotus Notes Database, Tana received a call from the counterparty requesting a 'less complicated' agreement.  In the comment, Tana suggested using an Industrial Master, if this agreement is OK from a Legal standpoint, I am OK using the Industrial from a Credit standpoint. Please draft this amended credit worksheet to an amended Industrial Master. Thank you, Russell 
I would like to take the week of Thanksgiving off.  My mom is coming from NY 
Tana, I plan to take Wednesday, November 22 and Monday, November 27th off during the Thanksgiving holiday.  My parents are coming in from Pennsylvania for Thanksgiving. Susan S. Bailey Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, Suite 3806A Houston, Texas 77002 Phone: (713) 853-4737 Fax: (713) 646-3490 
It appears that we have now opened up our first Japan based financial product on EnronOnline, and I need to get some direction from you as to what restrictions, if any, we have on (1) counterparties located/incorporated in Japan trading Japan based financial products, and (2) counterparties not located in Japan trading Japan based financial products. Previously, the only Japanese financial product we had was weather, but it wasn't being sold by a Japan based Enron company, so my understanding was that I didn't have any particular restrictions under Japanese law for counterparties located in or outside Japan in trading this product.  Now that the product is being sold by a Japan based company I am wondering was restrictions I might have to keep in mind when doing my daily online approvals. The only are Japan based direction I am getting is from the Broadband legal team (Robbi Rossi) which have told me Japanese counterparties can only trade US bandwidth segments. 
Thanks, I appreciate it!  What should I do with the Japanese counterparty on the 9/26/00 list?  Shut them down for all trading on Japan based products until I hear from you?  Will you be coming to the Legal Conference here in Houston next week?  Maybe we could chat then?! Jane McBride@ENRON 09/27/2000 09:46 AM 
Dear Tana, Am hoping to get something to you by end Friday. Jane McBride Tana Jones@ECT 09/27/2000 11:37 PM 
It appears that we have now opened up our first Japan based financial product on EnronOnline, and I need to get some direction from you as to what restrictions, if any, we have on (1) counterparties located/incorporated in Japan trading Japan based financial products, and (2) counterparties not located in Japan trading Japan based financial products. Previously, the only Japanese financial product we had was weather, but it wasn't being sold by a Japan based Enron company, so my understanding was that I didn't have any particular restrictions under Japanese law for counterparties located in or outside Japan in trading this product.  Now that the product is being sold by a Japan based company I am wondering was restrictions I might have to keep in mind when doing my daily online approvals. The only are Japan based direction I am getting is from the Broadband legal team (Robbi Rossi) which have told me Japanese counterparties can only trade US bandwidth segments. P.S. we do have a Japanese counterparty on the 9/26/00 list. 
FYI, I have a database where I keep track of my online approvals/declines and reasons why (if there are any!).  I don't know to what extent Frank ever looked at it, but you might find it helpful.  It is called ""ENA Legal Online Trading Agreements"" database.  If you're interested, I'll ask Mike Neves to 
As a reminder, We need to talk about some documentation Marcus Nettleton passed on to me for handling.  It's about the disclosure of the MG acquisition, some subordination loans & guarantees w/the NYMEX.  I asked Al Pennisi if it could 
Mike, Can you take care of this and let us know when Lisa has access.  Thanks. 
Yes, I would like to have access.  Please ask Mike to email me once he's given me access. Thank you. 
FYI, I have a database where I keep track of my online approvals/declines and reasons why (if there are any!).  I don't know to what extent Frank ever looked at it, but you might find it helpful.  It is called ""ENA Legal Online Trading Agreements"" database.  If you're interested, I'll ask Mike Neves to get you access. 
We have received the executed Letter Agreement dated 9/12/00 which amends the ETA to provide that Ameren Energy, Inc. can act as authorized agent for and on behalf of the following entities (""Operating Companies"") under such ETA: 1.  Union Electric Company (d/b/a Ameren UE) 2.  Ameren Energy Generating Company 3.  Ameren Energy Marketing Company The amendment to the ETA makes additional changes with respect to the agency relationship between Ameren Energy, Inc. and the Operating Companies. In connection with such amendment to the ETA we have also received: 1.  The originally executed Password Application 2.  Consent and Acknowledgement executed by the Operating Companies with respect to such agency relationship 
Following up on our conversation re: a visit to Santa Fe when you come to Houston, check out the Website for The Bishop's Lodge in Santa Fe (www.bishopslodge.com).   Some friends of mine bought a weekend there at a silent auction at a charity event recently and their brochure looked great. The website has pictures, prices, activities at the resort, and a hyperlink to the Website for the Santa Fe Chamber of Commerce which lists the activities going on in Santa Fe.  I think you are going to be too late for their summer opera series, but I took a look and there appears to be other fun things going on.  The website for the lodge shows a fabulous looking 
As some of you may be aware, there have been substantial revisions to the U.S. Tax Code which will require revising the tax language in our swap agreements.  I will be providing Steve Douglas in the Tax Dept. copies of the current tax language in our swap agreements and will coordinate with him 
Is anyone working on a confirmation for the Argentina office for a swap between ECT and Duke Energy International out of Argentina, Don Black would be the business person on this.  If you know, I need to get the draft faxed 
Yes. Michael Neves 09/27/2000 01:22 PM 
read only access? 
Mike, Can you take care of this and let us know when Lisa has access.  Thanks. 
Yes, I would like to have access.  Please ask Mike to email me once he's given me access. Thank you. 
FYI, I have a database where I keep track of my online approvals/declines and reasons why (if there are any!).  I don't know to what extent Frank ever looked at it, but you might find it helpful.  It is called ""ENA Legal Online Trading Agreements"" database.  If you're interested, I'll ask Mike Neves to get you access. 
The EOL approvals for 09/27/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am enclosing drafts of the following documents: 1.  Clean and blacklined copies of the ISDA Schedule showing revisions from the 9/22/00 draft.  Please note that RBC needs to complete the notice information. 2.  Copies of the Interest Rate and Commodity Confirmations.  Please note that certain dates, rates and pricing need to be determined early tomorrow. Please call me or Sara with any questions or comments with respect to the enclosed. 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am enclosing drafts of the following documents: 1.  A draft of the ISDA Schedule . 2.  Copies of the Interest Rate and Commodity Confirmations.  Please note that certain dates, rates and pricing need to be determined early tomorrow. Please call me or Sara with any questions or comments with respect to the enclosed. 
Attached are (1) the RMT Confirms and (2) the Incumbency Certificates required to be executed under the ISDA. 
Attached please the proposed forms of Confirmation with respect to the referenced transaction.  Please call me or Sara Shackleton if you have any comments or questions. 
I have some appointments outside the office this afternoon and will need to 
I don't know why I am on these emails? Wilma Low 09/28/2000 04:26 AM 
As discussed, please would you clarify the temporary purchasing procedures you're recommending for Enron Metals while we wait for the new 'E-buy' system to be rolled-out on October 9. Pls would you send confirmation to the cc list above as a matter of urgency. Many thanks, Wilma Director, IT Support x 37275 Mobile 07771 887413 
The Clickpaper approvals for 9/27/00 are attached below. Regards, 
I receive these emails from several different people within legal.  I'm not sure who we need to talk to in order to get you on the distribution list ... possibly Tana??? fld 
We have received and executed Master Agreement: Type of Contract:  ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) 
Dear All This is just a quick note to let you know that I will be leaving Enron next Friday to return to New Zealand in order to enjoy an extra summer and to study a bit more law. I'll be around until Friday 6th August should you have anything specific you would like me to deal with, but Michael Slade will now be dealing with all of my files. Michael has joined us from Covington & Burling and can be contacted on 0171 970 7433 or at mslade@enron.co.uk. Thanks to all of you for your assistance and advice over the past few years, it has been a pleasure working with you. Kindest regards, Sasha 
Per an email from Soma yesterday, Brian Hull wanted to transact out of their Toronto Branch, so I used their Toronto address in the agreement.  We do not have ""transactions numbers"" on our ISDA's.  I would take it if things proceed today, that we will date the agreement as of today, so the date of the agreement will be the only identifying information.  Toronto-Dominion will need to look at the notice information I put in the agreement and confirm that it is acceptable.  I pulled it from a recent agreeement they sent us. Greg Johnston 09/28/2000 09:29 AM 
Sara/Tana, do you know the answers to Kevin's questions below?  If so, could you e-mail the particulars to him as soon as possible. Thanks Greg 
As per my voicemail, attached are the officer's certificates we will require. Do you know what address TD Bank will be using on the ISDAs?  (presumably their Calgary Main Branch)  also, are there transaction numbers for each of the ISDAs yet so that we can fill in the blanks on the certificate and opinions (RE ISDA Agreement Master No. ?) Thanks Kevin Kevin A. Fougere Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP Suite 3500, Bankers Hall East Calgary, AB  T2P 4J8 Tel: (403) 260-9646 Fax: (403) 260-9700 e-mail: kevin.fougere@blakes.com This e-mail communication is confidential and legally privileged.  If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at the telephone number shown above or by return e-mail and delete this communication and any copy immediately.  Thank you. - BowRiver.DOC - RBC-ISDA.DOC 
Attached please the proposed forms of Confirmation with respect to the referenced transaction.  Please call me or Sara Shackleton if you have any comments or questions. 
Can you change Peter's name, I had it wrong, it's ""Peter C.M. Keohane"". Thanks! carrd2@tdcibg.com 09/28/2000 09:21 AM 
Tana/Sara - Could one of you please call me at (416) 983-9473 to discuss the ISDA Schedule?  I don't have your numbers.  Thanks, Dan. Tana.Jones@enron.com on 09/27/2000 07:58:32 PM 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, I am enclosing drafts of the following documents: 1.  A draft of the ISDA Schedule . 2.  Copies of the Interest Rate and Commodity Confirmations.  Please note that certain dates, rates and pricing need to be determined early tomorrow. Please call me or Sara with any questions or comments with respect to the enclosed. (See attached file: ECCRBCnymex2.doc)    (See attached file: ECCTDBrate.doc)     (See attached file: 796ctr (Toronto Dominion).doc) - ECCRBCnymex2.doc - ECCTDBrate.doc - 796ctr (Toronto Dominion).doc 
The Clickpaper approvals for 9/28/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
Alberta law is OK. 
Attached please find the revised draft Schedule. (See attached file: Enroncan.doc) Regards, Dan Carr 
Attached please find the revised draft Schedule. (See attached file: Enroncan.doc) Regards, Dan Carr 
Alberta law is OK. 
Attached please find the revised draft Schedule. (See attached file: Enroncan.doc) Regards, Dan Carr 
Attached please find the revised draft Schedule. (See attached file: Enroncan.doc) Regards, Dan Carr 
Please find attached a clean and blacklined draft of the revised ISDA Master. 
The EOL approvals for 09/28/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
So far as much as I've been able to track, the Houston Confirmation Desk does not know about this Duke Confirm yet.  Don, can you contact Dale Neuner on the Confirmation Desk ASAP with the proposed deal terms so he can prepare the Confirm and get it sent over to Duke.  Thanks! 
Per, What's the deal he's talking about?  I also do not think we could put ENA and Enron Metals Ltd. trades under the same master.  When you have a mingute give me a ring. Tana 
Name Catequil MD  Paul Touradji (X Tiger) We were advised that a swap document is in the works through Per Sekse Enron New York. We would like this document to cover all products and Enron Metals Ltd. ---not just North America. My guess--- we trade with most of Per Sekse funds and this issue should be clarified 
Jeff hasn't left the group, has he? Larry Joe Hunter 09/29/2000 08:47 AM 
To all, Please remove Jeff Sorenson from your distribution lists for the Confirmations group.  Please send all Master Agreements, Amendments, and all else directly to me @ EB3094A. Thanks, Joe Hunter 
Attached is a clean and blacklined draft of the Schedule reflecting your insert.  I think it is our intention to just insert the revised page into the agreement. ""Ross, Tracy "" <TRACY.ROSS@ROYALBANK.COM> 09/29/2000 08:12 AM 
He has.  He now works with EGM. joe 
Jeff hasn't left the group, has he? Larry Joe Hunter 09/29/2000 08:47 AM 
To all, Please remove Jeff Sorenson from your distribution lists for the Confirmations group.  Please send all Master Agreements, Amendments, and all else directly to me @ EB3094A. Thanks, Joe Hunter 
Here is the interest rate we are going to mirror to create for Toronto Dominion. 
NYPA called today wanting to know the status of our review.  Can we pow wow 
The EOL approvals for 09/29/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Mike, have you been able to figure out how to get Brent Hendry, who is now in Buenos Aires, access to our Master Swap Agreement database?  Can you let me 
I do not know the answer to your question.  I suggest you talk to Credit. Financial does indeed have a master with Weyerhaueser Company Limited.  I have no idea what we trade physical under or what other Weyerhaueser companies we may have business with. Bridgette Anderson@ENRON 09/29/2000 06:37 PM 
Karen et al., To begin with, I contacted Legal (Tana Jones) in reference to Weyerhaeuser Company listed on the Clickpaper Credit Response 090700, and left her a voicemail message since she was not available.  She has not yet responded. Since then, I have been in contact with Global Counterparty and they have advised me that the CP#11319 Weyerhaeuser Company (the CP reported on Clickpaper 090700) is the parent to CP#81012 Weyerhaeuser Company Limited (the CP that we currently have an executed contract ). Based on similar issues in the past, and supported by Mary Solomonson's agreement with the Legal department, the Global Contracts group will not provide a response until Legal clarifies the issue.  Accordingly, we will not include the current Global Contract number given to CP#81012 Weyerhaeuser Company Limited unless and until Legal approves the contract for Weyerhaeuser Company. Regards, Bridgette 
I am just confirming with each of you that I will be opening up The Toa Reinsurance Company Limited, a Japanese counterparty on the 9/26/00 list to trade all physical and financial products, including Australian and Japanese weather, which seems to be the products they are truly interested in 
I sent down the list for 9/27/00 on Friday.  On the 9/26/00 list, for Edison Mission Marketing & Trade, I am showing them as ""amended-no change"" becuase I already had them open for emissions.  Same on FPL Energy Power Marketing, I am showing them as ""amended-no change"" because I already had them opened for physical gas. 
I confirmed w/Brad that they are still an ESP, so it's OK to open them up for all financial. Lisa Lees 10/02/2000 03:42 PM 
Lisa, Here are the products Xeron wants to trade US Nat gas fin swap, US nat gas FOB phy fwd, US Normal Butane Fin, US Normal Butane FOB fwd,  US propane fin, and US propane phy, US purity ethane fin, US purity ethane phy fwd. Thanks, Brad 
The EOL approvals for 10/02/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
What's the scoop on this? 
Tana, I have a second user applying for this company.  I show them as not open for trade - is this still correct? Not really urgent... Thanks, Camille 
Will do, I'll send you a copy too.  I'm just waiting to get Sara's direction on one comment to the Legal Opinion, then I'll be ready to send it out. Janelle Scheuer 10/03/2000 09:57 AM 
Hi Tana....When you email the comments to Bill, ca you please email them to my contact as well.....Carey.M@NYPA.gov .....thanks! 
As you all are probably aware, we trade physical and financial products with Northern Illinois Gas Company under each of the following names: 1  Northern Illinois Gas Company (the legal incorporated entity) 2.  Nicor Gas Company (an assumed name for Northern Illinois Gas Company as reflected in the Assumed Name Certificate dated 12/15/99 filed with the Secretary of State of Illinois.  The name needs to match the Assumed Name Certificate, no ""Co."") 3.  Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company The EnronOnline counterparty has been set up as ""Nicor Gas Company"". Pursuant to Bob Bruce's conversation with our Illinois outside counsel, we are comfortable transacting business in the State of Illinois under the assumed name ""Nicor Gas Company"".  In connection therewith, it is OK to set up the online entity as ""Nicor Gas Company"", and attach the relevant physical or financial products to the relevant master under each of the above counterparty names.  Further, it will be OK if the confirmations go out as ""Nicor Gas Company"" even though the masters may be under one of the above names. PLEASE NOTE, HOWEVER, this should be considered an exception to the rule.  We do not want counterparties to be set up under assumed names, d/b/a's or divisions for EnronOnline.  As previously agreed with the Online team, every attempt should be made to incorporate the legal name as part of the counterparty name (such as ""Northern Illinois Gas Company d/b/a Nicor Gas Company"" or ""Koch Industries, Inc. acting through its Koch Hydrocarbon Company Division"").   Any exceptions to this should be run by Legal for 
Did you make a note under H.Q. Energy Services in Lotus Notes...? Mary Cook 10/03/2000 01:58 PM 
I was able to get an agreement with HQ counsel that they would complete their review by early next week, at which time I will conf call them with our Quebec counsel and work to resolve outstanding issues.  Thank you for your patience in respect of this unusual counterparty.  Mary Enron North America Corp. Mary Cook 1400 Smith, 38th Floor, Legal Houston, Texas   77002-7361 (713) 345-7732 (phone) (713) 646-3490 (fax) mary.cook@enron.com 
No can do...just made appt. to go to lunch with CSS.  However, he cancels on me half the time, so if he cancels again I'd love to go... Mary Cook 10/03/2000 03:08 PM 
Birthday tomorrow.  Can you come to dong ting to celebrate at lunch?  Let me know and I will make the reservations at 12 noon. Enron North America Corp. Mary Cook 1400 Smith, 38th Floor, Legal Houston, Texas   77002-7361 (713) 345-7732 (phone) (713) 646-3490 (fax) mary.cook@enron.com 
At the request of Sara Shackleton, Senior Counsel, I am attaching a copy of our proposed form of Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement and proposed form of counterparty legal opinion.  If you have any questions, please call Sara at (713) 853-5620 or me at (713) 853-3399.  We look forward to getting your comments. 
We have received a revised Unanimous Consent of Directors dated 8/28/00 (""Board Resolution"") from the referenced Counterparty which expands the approval given in their initial Board Resolution (provided when we executed the ISDA Master Agreement) to allow them to enter into ""pulp, lumber and paper commodity price swap and options, and other commodity price swap and option transactions""  with ENA. For ClickPaper, this should allow them to trade all the financial products we trade.  For EnronOnline, this should allow them to trade all commodity swaps and options.  If Credit will add this to the next spreadsheets for both ClickPaper and EnronOnline, I will amend my approval. I will circulate a copy of the revised Board Resolution to Global Contracts 
Pretty funny!  I went over to harass him, but he must be on vacation! Marie Heard@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/03/2000 03:32 PM 
See Mark's e-mail below.  Wow, this is what I call vacation time!  I'm going to work in the London office. Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-3907 Fax:  (713) 646-8537 Marie_Heard@Enron.net 
I will be out of the office from 02/10/2000 until 09/10/2000. In my absence, please contact my PA, Nicola Beales, if you require further assistance. 
fyi, 
Notice No. 00-337 September 29, 2000 
The EOL approvals for 10/03/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
The Clickpaper approvals for 10/3/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
The Mounties have arrived! Stacey Richardson 10/04/2000 03:57 PM 
Thanks for the update!  I hope things are getting better for you since you're getting more people to help with financials. 
We have received a revised Unanimous Consent of Directors dated 8/28/00 (""Board Resolution"") from the referenced Counterparty which expands the approval given in their initial Board Resolution (provided when we executed the ISDA Master Agreement) to allow them to enter into ""pulp, lumber and paper commodity price swap and options, and other commodity price swap and option transactions""  with ENA. For ClickPaper, this should allow them to trade all the financial products we trade.  For EnronOnline, this should allow them to trade all commodity swaps and options.  If Credit will add this to the next spreadsheets for both ClickPaper and EnronOnline, I will amend my approval. I will circulate a copy of the revised Board Resolution to Global Contracts and Camille Gerard. 
When you have a minute can we talk about this...thanks! 
Please remove me from the Clickpaper.com approval list, and replace me with Julia Murray or her designee. Thanks Tana Jones 10/04/2000 08:57 AM 
The Clickpaper approvals for 10/3/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
Attached is revised list opening Edison Mission Marketing & Trade for emissions. 
The EOL approvals for 10/04/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Tobin, You don't need to keep Taffy on the list about our volume positions.  She is mine and Mark's assistant and just prints out the forms for us.  She really 
For Xeron, Inc.-amended no change means, they were initially open for financial, shut down for power, open for all other physical products.  No change from that approval. 
The Clickpaper approvals for 10/4/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
My assistant, Taffy Milligan will be sending it to you. Martin Rosell 10/05/2000 08:16 AM 
Tana, hope you're doing well. We'd wish to replicate the terms in the ENA-Utilicorp. United Inc. ISDA referred to below in a similar contract between ECTRIC and Utilicorp. United Inc.   Pls send me a electronic copy of the executed contract.  Tks. Martin 
Hi! Thanks for your help.  According to Matt Dawson, it looks like a signed ISDA has been executed between ENA and Utilicorp United Inc. in the past.  We will also need an ISDA between ECTRIC and Utilicorp United Inc.  You mentioned perhaps mirroring the existing ISDA however with the restricted lists I believe you will be to obtain the copy easier than we will.  However, if you would like Utilicorp to produce a draft, let  me know and I can request that from the woman in the e.mail below. Please advise and I will pass the information on to Utilicorp. Thank you Yumi x34708 
There seems to be some question whether Utilicorp. can trade financial.  I opened them to trade all financial (including power) on 7/26/00.  I think the customer is calling Kathy for access.  There should be no change in their 
The EOL approvals for 10/06/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
The Clickpaper approvals for 10/6/00 are attached below. Regards, 
Attached below is the Argentine customer list for EnronOnline.  My understanding is that we will launch EnronOnline in Argentina within the next couple of weeks.  With this in mind, I think we will have to shoot for the end of next week (October 13) to have customer profiles completed.  Please let Lisa Lees know of any conflicts or issues that arise. Thanks! Frank 
Frank, It seems now that we are going to proceed with Argentina. Therefore, I am attaching the customer list. I am not sure if you already have it. Thanks! Leonardo Pacheco 
Esta es la lista que querias. 
can you fax her the fron of the ISDA Schedule for Utilicorp.  She must be in the Oslo office. 
Good Morning Tana, Thank you so much for faxing the ISDA with Utilicorp.  However would you be so kind to send the 1st 18 pages again.  They seem to have disappeared in our office.  I have everything after that (Schedule to the Master Agreement, Credit Support Annex, Paragraph 13 Annex, Exhibit A to Paragraph 13, and Exhibit A Guaranty) I would greatly appreciate if you would fax the first 18 pages of the ISDA (footer states ""ISDA 1992"") to +47 23 10 25 50. Thank you for your help. Have a great day and weekend. Sincerely, Yumi Takei +47 23 10 25 57 
The Clickpaper approvals for 10/5/00 are attached below. Regards, tm 
The EOL approvals for 10/05/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Trading on NYMEX ACCESS 
r=20 Trading on NYMEX ACCESS Notice No. 00-347 October 6, 2000 MEMORANDUM TO: ALL NYMEX AND COMEX MEMBERS FROM: Neal L. Wolkoff, Executive Vice President DATE: October 6, 2000 RE: Notice of CFTC Approval of Executive Committee Resolution Amending Price=20 Fluctuation Limits for Trading on NYMEX ACCESSc ____________________________________________________________________ Please be advised that the CFTC has approved a Resolution of the Executive= =20 Committee of the Board of Directors.  The Resolution amends on a temporary= =20 basis a number of Exchange price fluctuation limit rules for trading on NYM= EX=20 ACCESSc so as to ensure the successful implementation of the new implied=20 order functionality on NYMEX ACCESSc. (The price fluctuation limit rules th= at=20 are now in effect for the Exchange=01,s contracts will remain the same for= =20 trading occurring during Regular Trading Hours (""RTH"") on the trading=20 floor.)  The Resolution is attached and will become effective with the=20 commencement of the NYMEX ACCESSc session on Sunday, October 8, 2000. By significantly expanding the price fluctuation limits applicable to tradi= ng=20 activity occurring on NYMEX ACCESSc, the Resolution reduces the possibility= =20 that a price limit would be triggered by the implied functionality.  The=20 Resolution amends the Exchange=01,s price fluctuation limit rules with rega= rd to=20 trading on NYMEX ACCESSc in three ways: (1) The initial and subsequent price fluctuation limits (for each Exchange= =20 futures contract that has such limits) would be expanded to 200% of the=20 initial and subsequent price fluctuation limits applicable to the first two= =20 contract months for energy contracts, or to the first contract month with= =20 limits in effect for metals contracts, of that futures contract under the= =20 applicable rule. (2) This expanded limit (e.g., 200% of the limits for the front two months= =20 for energy contracts) would be applicable to all contract months for that= =20 futures contract. (3) In the event that an expanded price limit was touched by a bid or offer= ,=20 trading on NYMEX ACCESSc generally would be halted immediately, rather than= =20 requiring the market to trade at that price for five minutes. During the la= st=20 90 minutes of a NYMEX ACCESSc session, the market would be halted only far = as=20 long as it takes for the system to incorporate expanded price limits. Finally, notwithstanding the changes noted above, in the event that a=20 contract trading on NYMEX ACCESSc traded for five minutes at a price=20 fluctuation limit applicable to RTH trading, then the RTH session would ope= n=20 with expanded price fluctuation limits as provided under the applicable rul= e,=20 even though there had been no temporary cessation of trading during the NYM= EX=20 ACCESSc trading session. If you have any questions, please contact Stu Homler, Director, NYMEX ACCES= Sc=20 Operations, NYMEX ACCESSc Department, at (212) 299-2754, Matt Morano, NYMEX= =20 ACCESSc Department, at (212) 299-2679, or Brian Regan, Senior Associate=20 General Counsel, at (212) 299-2207. APPROVED RESOLUTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGARDING PRICE FLUCTUATION LIMITS FOR EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Executive Committee of the Board of Directors hereby Resolves that, until further notice, the price fluctuation limit rules for= =20 each futures contract that is listed for trading on NYMEX ACCESSc and that= =20 has such applicable rules shall continue in effect except as amended below= =20 with regard to market activity occurring on NYMEX ACCESSc: The initial and subsequent price fluctuation limits (for each Exchange=20 futures contract that has such limits) shall be expanded to 200% of the=20 initial and subsequent price fluctuation limits applicable to the first two= =20 contract months of that futures contract that have price limits under the= =20 applicable rule. This expanded limit (200% of the limits for the first two months with limit= s)=20 shall be applicable to all contract months for that futures contract. In the event that such a price fluctuation limit is reached by a bona fide= =20 bid at the high price fluctuation limit or a bona fide offer at the low pri= ce=20 fluctuation limit, trading on NYMEX ACCESSc shall be halted immediately=20 except as directed otherwise by the President or the President=01,s designe= e. =20 Following resumption of trading, the price limits in effect shall be 200% o= f=20 the limits applicable to RTH trading.  In the event that a limit is touched= =20 during the last 90 minutes of a NYMEX ACCESSc session, the market shall be= =20 halted briefly, and price limits shall be expanded thereafter In addition, in the event that a contract trading on NYMEX ACCESSc traded f= or=20 five minutes during the NYMEX ACCESSc session at a price fluctuation limit= =20 applicable to the Regular Trading Hours session, then the RTH session shall= =20 open with expanded price fluctuation limits as provided under the applicabl= e=20 rule, even though no temporary cessation of trading occurred during the NYM= EX=20 ACCESSc trading session. __________________________________________________ Please click on the link below to indicate you have received this email. 
Matt, Can you provide me with the name and address of who we should send this amendment to for signature?  I still have to run it by an attorney, though. Matthew Dawson 10/05/2000 10:34 AM 
HI Tana Here is the Amendment Agreement containg the additional ""online"" wording agreed for the ECTRIC ISDA  that  Barclays want included in the ENA Isda. I hope this is O.K. If you need anything else please call. Will also  enter the new ISDA in data base ASAP. Thanks Matt Dawson 
matt you will need to pass this by tana jones in the US for approval j Matthew Dawson 25/09/2000 15:03 
Hi  Justin, Just to let you know the Guarantee arrived from Houston this morning. I have sent it on to Leigh. Also she requested that we amend the other Existing ISDA Master Agreement Barclays has with Enron North America, dated 13 Jan 1994 to include the Part 5(h) and(o)  wording dealing with  Procedures for entering into Transactions(Online and others), and also the Part 6 wording dealing with Additional Provisions for Commodity Derivatives Transactions. I attatch her proposed amendment agreement. The wording of the clauses is identical to that which was agreed in the ECTRIC  Master that has just been signed, although the numbering of Part 5 (o) differs in the recent Isda with ECTRIC. Barclays cannot trade with ENA until the Isda has been amended.  Are we able to accommodate the   agreement? 
Attached is the referenced list.  I am saying ""amended-no change"" because for Calpine, I originally had them open for power & financial, and I am not changing that approval, and for Nicor, I originally had them open for 
I'm preparing for a presentation I have to give tomorrow.  Once I'm done with this I'll give you a call... Susan D Trevino 10/09/2000 03:46 PM 
Tana - I understand that a new product needs to be added to the Meta-Calc Report.  Please advise. Thank you, Susan Trevino 3-1462 
Enron Canada has a Master Agreement [ECT form, non ISDA] in place with Energy West Incorporated (which ENA could trade under per the Services Agreement with ECC covering financial trades only).  Per my conversation a second ago with Credit, Energy West Incorporated and Energy West Resources are not showing up in their records as being one and the same corporation.  Sounds to me you need to call Credit for approval.  If we do not have a master, they would have to get Credit approval to do a trade w/o a master in place. John Malowney 10/09/2000 04:18 PM 
Tana, I am attempting to put together a ""spark spread"" with Energy West Resources (AKA Energy West).  EPMI has a master in place with Energy West Resources Inc. their current and correct business name.   I understand we have an ISDA in place with Energy West Incorporated who is one and the same.   In addition to credit concerns, is there any problem doing a financial transaction with Energy West Resources Inc. under the name on the ISDA of Energy West Incorporated ? 
See email below to John. 
Enron Canada has a Master Agreement [ECT form, non ISDA] in place with Energy West Incorporated (which ENA could trade under per the Services Agreement with ECC covering financial trades only).  Per my conversation a second ago with Credit, Energy West Incorporated and Energy West Resources are not showing up in their records as being one and the same corporation.  Sounds to me you need to call Credit for approval.  If we do not have a master, they would have to get Credit approval to do a trade w/o a master in place. John Malowney 10/09/2000 04:18 PM 
Tana, I am attempting to put together a ""spark spread"" with Energy West Resources (AKA Energy West).  EPMI has a master in place with Energy West Resources Inc. their current and correct business name.   I understand we have an ISDA in place with Energy West Incorporated who is one and the same.   In addition to credit concerns, is there any problem doing a financial transaction with Energy West Resources Inc. under the name on the ISDA of Energy West Incorporated ? 
Sounds good to me! Lisa Lees 10/09/2000 05:39 PM 
It appears that all we need to do for these new product types is copy customer profiles from US HeatingOil2Fin Swap and US UNL Gas Fin Swap. Unless I hear back from any of you before 10:00 a.m. Tuesday, 10/10, we'll just copy the profiles.  Sorry for the short notice. 
Take today off (from EOL at least!). 
There are no EOL approvals for 10/9/00. Regards, tm 
We just received what we hope is a final draft of the documents from Deutsche Bank, and I hope to respond back to you shortly, once I have had a chance to confirm they made all the changes. Clare.Godson@AllenOvery.com 10/10/2000 04:33 AM 
Brent, I am having this woman with Duke here in Houston, Roni Cappadonna, calling me wanting to get the form of the confirmation.  I don't know what to tell her. Can we get her a draft of a confirm with proposed deal terms or do we have to wait until the trade is done?  I think the person that really needs to be handling this is Dale Neuner, not me.  I am kinda just in the middle of the confirm thing.  Can we get Scott Neal, or whoever needs to relay the confirm information, to deal with Dale Neuner directly, so we can get Dale dealing 
The omnibus swap below, plus this Annex A make up the ""omnibus"" confirm. 
Tana, Here's a Draft I had in my personal file.  I thought this would be easier than deleting the coding from the system template Joe 
Attached is the referenced list.  I am saying ""amended-no change"" because for Calpine, I originally had them open for power & financial, and I am not changing that approval, and for Nicor, I originally had them open for 
It was cute! Genia FitzGerald 10/10/2000 03:23 PM 
Thanks for inviting me to share Mexican food with you.  Tana said it was YOUR fault I wasn't invited!!!!! Genia 
Can you forward alison the template for an omnibus swap.  The attached appears to be an EOL template. 
The Confirmation I'm wanting is the other form you gave us which under General Terms starts with ""Notional Quantity per Determination Period"". Do you have it? Thanks. 
That's what I just sent you.... Allison McHenry@EES 10/10/2000 03:04 PM 
Thanks Tana. Do you also have the Confirmation (SWAP) form that said ""EOLID""? I think that was the form we understood you to say was the ""preferred"" form. Thanks again. 
The omnibus swap below, plus this Annex A make up the ""omnibus"" confirm. 
Tana, Here's a Draft I had in my personal file.  I thought this would be easier than deleting the coding from the system template Joe 
Can you pass this on to the next person...thanks! 
Standard ownership change is fine. 
It has been brought to my attention that we have done several internal trades the last few days with the referenced wholly owned Enron company (right Tony?!).  With Tanya's approval, we need to get out an ISDA Master between Northern and RMT with no credit except the standard change of ownership clauses.   If that is OK with Tanya, Susan, can you pass on this master to the next paralegal in the rotation.  Tony will attend to getting the master signed from Northern's side. Thanks. 
It's really all Genia's fault, she goes to lunch too darn early.  I guess we need to make a date beforehand for lunch with you...! Marie Heard@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/10/2000 04:04 PM 
Hey, I was an invited guest.  It wasn't my party!  Sounds like someone is trying to weasel herself out of trouble. Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-3907 Fax:  (713) 646-8537 Marie_Heard@Enron.net Genia FitzGerald@ECT 10/10/00 03:23 PM 
Thanks for inviting me to share Mexican food with you.  Tana said it was YOUR fault I wasn't invited!!!!! Genia 
On the 10/05/00 List:  Tembec, Inc.'s bylaws require that agreements signed by the company must be signed by any two of the following officers:   the President or a Vice President together with any Director, Secretary or Assistant Secretary.  If you are going to trade with them online you must ensure that the Password Application gets signed by those officers, or if not by those officers, they must provide a resolution if any officer except those above signs the documentation.  Because of this signatory restriction EnronOnline was hesitant to open them for financial trading.  It's up to your group, but you must comply with these special signatory requirements.  If you would like Legal to pass on the documentation if you are unsure, forward it up to me. 
The EOL approvals for 10/10/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
It's no surprise to me to find Reggie's been stirring it up! Genia FitzGerald 10/11/2000 07:43 AM 
You are both wrong, it is Reggie's fault, he told me not to hang around either of you!!!!! Marie Heard@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/10/2000 04:21 PM 
Yeh, you're right.  It is her fault.  In the past, she always had plans and couldn't (or just didn't want to) go with us.  I guess that's the price you pay for being so popular and in demand. Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-3907 Fax:  (713) 646-8537 Marie_Heard@Enron.net Tana Jones@ECT 10/10/00 04:09 PM 
It's really all Genia's fault, she goes to lunch too darn early.  I guess we need to make a date beforehand for lunch with you...! Marie Heard@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/10/2000 04:04 PM 
Hey, I was an invited guest.  It wasn't my party!  Sounds like someone is trying to weasel herself out of trouble. Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-3907 Fax:  (713) 646-8537 Marie_Heard@Enron.net Genia FitzGerald@ECT 10/10/00 03:23 PM 
Thanks for inviting me to share Mexican food with you.  Tana said it was YOUR fault I wasn't invited!!!!! Genia 
We have been doing this here in Houston via a Unanimous Consent of the Directors of the Company appointing the individual(s) as agents and attorneys-in-fact.  Do you sugguest I proceed this way or via the Power of Attorney below? 
Hi Mark and Tana I have been given your name by Justin Boyd as someone who can help me or point me in the right direction. We need to raise a power of attorney to enable Amita Gosalia of Enron House to execute EnronOnline Password Applications for each of the above company. Please could you let me know if you can prepare such a document and also what if any additional information you require.  I have attached a copy of the Power of Attorney which we use in the UK for such authority for your information. Unfortunately this is becoming quite urgent and any assistance you can give will be greatly appreciated. Please let me know if you have any queries. 
Per Steven Vu's message, I still haven't received the info we need to 
FYI-waiting for direction. 
We have been doing this here in Houston via a Unanimous Consent of the Directors of the Company appointing the individual(s) as agents and attorneys-in-fact.  Do you sugguest I proceed this way or via the Power of Attorney below? 
Hi Mark and Tana I have been given your name by Justin Boyd as someone who can help me or point me in the right direction. We need to raise a power of attorney to enable Amita Gosalia of Enron House to execute EnronOnline Password Applications for each of the above company. Please could you let me know if you can prepare such a document and also what if any additional information you require.  I have attached a copy of the Power of Attorney which we use in the UK for such authority for your information. Unfortunately this is becoming quite urgent and any assistance you can give will be greatly appreciated. Please let me know if you have any queries. Thanks and regards 
All, I will be taking an early lunch in order to receive some new furniture at my house and to meet with my decorator. I will leave the office @ 11:00 am and will return by 1:30pm or earlier. See you all then. Susan S. Bailey Enron North America Corp. 1400 Smith Street, Suite 3806A Houston, Texas 77002 Phone: (713) 853-4737 Fax: (713) 646-3490 
That change will have to be approved by Mark Taylor, who is out of town until 
These could take a few days (or more!).  They have to be circulated to the directors of the Company for signature and timing will depend on their availability for signature.  If Amita wants to start signing today, she can go ahead and start signing now and I'll make her appointment effective as of today. Cindy Buckley 10/11/2000 09:22 AM 
Hi Tana Thanks for quick response. I'm happy for the unanimous consents of the directors and the attorneys-in-fact.  Please could you let me know when these have been signed and are effective. Thanks for your help. Regards 
John Arnold wants this counterparty opened ASAP for financial.  We didn't have any financial statements from them when they originally came thru, so we couldn't determine their ESP status, but we're OK now, so if you could open them for financial ASAP. 
I just got off the phone w/Derek.  I'll make sure someone handles it. Shari Stack 10/11/2000 01:55 PM 
Here this is - can you please let Derek know you will handle? Thank you, S 
Shari, I sent a copy of a standard short form agreement to encore.  They have sent back comments.  Could you please review and get back to me.  We also need to exchange C$10MM guarantees between Enron & Epcore. Derek 
Karen, Upon re-review w/Credit, we have decided not to open this counterparty up for financial trading until further legal and credit issues are resolved. Karen Lambert 10/11/2000 12:06 PM 
Please confirm that this is the counterparty previously approved for online trading for EOL under the same name and identified as CP ID # 77297. Also, please confirm whether you need financials for ENA or for all worldwide financial product trading categories. 
John Arnold wants this counterparty opened ASAP for financial.  We didn't have any financial statements from them when they originally came thru, so we couldn't determine their ESP status, but we're OK now, so if you could open them for financial ASAP. Thanks. 
Thanks, I appreciate your help! Dianne Seib 10/11/2000 03:12 PM 
Here is a copy of the confirmation letter prepared for Encore.  Let me know if there is anything else I can do. Dianne 
Thanks Joe, you're the best! Larry Joe Hunter 10/11/2000 03:44 PM 
Melinda, Here's the Annex A that you should be using: Thanks, Joe 
Dear Greg, As we discussed, I am attaching our proposed form of ISDA Schedule and Credit Support Annex for your review.  If you have any comments or questions, please do not hesitate to call me at 713/853-3399.  We look forward to hearing from you. 
Have you done deals in the UK and France that we should use as our model? 
you should have the UK and Fance already cia the deals done and the Norway data was mailed to steve tuesday. If you dont please let me know what you need via email tonite and You will have it when you get in on monday stew 
The EOL approvals for 10/11/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
MALCOLM Greg -CONTROLLER <greg.malcolm@ontariopowergeneration.com> 10/12/2000 08:19 AM Let me know if you still don't get the attachment. 
Dear Greg, As we discussed, I am attaching our proposed form of ISDA Schedule and Credit Support Annex for your review.  If you have any comments or questions, please do not hesitate to call me at 713/853-3399.  We look forward to hearing from you. 
We will try to get back to them soon.  We had to locate Indiana counsel to advise us on this, and hope to engage them today. Kim S Theriot 10/12/2000 09:34 AM 
Tana, I keep getting calls from a lady named Kathy at ACES (who is agent for Wabash) looking for a draft of the ISDA Agreement.  She gave me another contact for Wabash .... Jill Hoerger at (317) 481-2851. Kim Theriot 
Please remember that all online confidentiality agreement should be logged in through me, I prepare a list of them for the Online Team.  All regular conffidentiality agreements should be logged in through one of the paralegals so we can monitor them.  Also, we need to do a conflicts check with Kay. 
Just a reminder that we have the Customer Access Agreement that Craig Breslau sent up for our review.  We need to (1) determine what procedures, if any, we need to put in place with respect to user ID's to other online trading websites, and (2) respond to Craig about this agreement.  When you both get 
This seems like something the Confirmation Desk should do, or you.  I have never dealt with the deal tickets before. 
Can everyone meet tomorrow around 3-4pm to talk about SWAP Deals? If not Friday, when would be a good time on Monday? Marianne Castano would like for Paul to explain the Springs deal to us and have Tana show us how to transfer 
crude and oil products 
I don't see any problem with this request, do you? 
crude and oil products Please let me know if this request is OK? Thanks, Stephanie 
crude and oil products We are ok with this request for Utilicorp United, Inc. brant 
Per our conversation while you were here, attached is a list of all the Japanese counterparties that have requested Password Applications from EnronOnline.  Let me know you thoughts about this, and, as we discussed, online due diligence with respect to Japanese counterparties. 
Let me know if you need anything else. 
crude and oil products 
Justy, I don't think there is any problem with this.  But since Harry told me to run it by you, I am.  Could you sign off ASAP.  Thanks! 
crude and oil products I do not know of any reason that they should not be able to transact UK oil and products. However, it would be best to also check with London on this request. Tana Jones 10/12/2000 11:55 AM 
crude and oil products I don't see any problem with this request, do you? 
crude and oil products Please let me know if this request is OK? Thanks, Stephanie 
crude and oil products We are ok with this request for Utilicorp United, Inc. brant 
crude and oil products 
Any problem? 
crude and oil products Tana: Please check with Robert Quick on this. Thanks. Alan Harry M Collins 10/12/2000 12:29 PM 
crude and oil products I do not know of any reason that they should not be able to transact UK oil and products. However, it would be best to also check with London on this request. Tana Jones 10/12/2000 11:55 AM 
crude and oil products I don't see any problem with this request, do you? 
crude and oil products Please let me know if this request is OK? Thanks, Stephanie 
crude and oil products We are ok with this request for Utilicorp United, Inc. brant 
Mark Taylor is going the be the host of the next ECT Legal Conference to be held in the Woodlands in October and he asked me to contact you to see if you know yet which of the Brits are going to be attending because we need to start making reservations.  If you get a minute and can drop me a line I'd 
For the online trading project, I am trying to track down for the U.K., the Datasource, Reporting Service, and Reporting Agency for the GTC.  I understand that you might either have that information or be able to direct 
Can y'all help me get the document below signed by an officer of ECC and return the originally signed document to me.  I will send them all out together back to the counterparty.  FYI-Andy Zipper is second in command to Louise Kitchen for EnronOnline.  Thanks for your help! 
Tana, Can you please have ENA, EPMI, and Enron Canada Corp. each sign a copy of the participant agreement attached below for the Intercontinental Exchange. When signed please return them the fax number listed and let me know when they have gone out. I got Mark Taylor's okay on this. Let me know if you have any questions. Andy 
crude and oil products 
Why aren't you playing polo?  Has your horse accepted other film roles after your smashing success in Gladiator? P.S.  Missed you at the seminar, it's just not the same when you're not there...! Justin Boyd 10/13/2000 12:52 AM 
crude and oil products tana - fine with me! tootoo ..how's it all going? i'm not playing polo this winter - boohoo!...feeling very deprived! j 
crude and oil products Justy, I don't think there is any problem with this.  But since Harry told me to run it by you, I am.  Could you sign off ASAP.  Thanks! 
crude and oil products I do not know of any reason that they should not be able to transact UK oil and products. However, it would be best to also check with London on this request. Tana Jones 10/12/2000 11:55 AM 
crude and oil products I don't see any problem with this request, do you? 
crude and oil products Please let me know if this request is OK? Thanks, Stephanie 
crude and oil products We are ok with this request for Utilicorp United, Inc. brant 
crude and oil products 
I check with Legal in the US and the UK, and were have no problem with Utilicorp trading UK crude and crude products. Stephanie Sever 10/12/2000 11:31 AM 
crude and oil products Please let me know if this request is OK? Thanks, Stephanie 
crude and oil products We are ok with this request for Utilicorp United, Inc. brant 
Tana, Can you please have ENA, EPMI, and Enron Canada Corp. each sign a copy of the participant agreement attached below for the Intercontinental Exchange. When signed please return them the fax number listed and let me know when they have gone out. I got Mark Taylor's okay on this. Let me know if you have any questions. Andy 
Notice No. 00-354 October 13, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: MARGIN RATE CHANGE 
76-0318139 ""JASON PETERS"" <PETEJ@andrews-kurth.com> 10/13/2000 10:07 AM 
What's ENA's tax id #? 
Always happy to hear from my favorite outside counsel! ""JASON PETERS"" <PETEJ@andrews-kurth.com> 10/13/2000 10:31 AM 
10/13/2000 10:07 AM What's ENA's tax id #? 
Thanks Justy! Justin Boyd 10/13/2000 10:59 AM 
Dearest Try Denis O'Connell or Paul Simons Justinian 
Per Leslie's earlier email, she wants power trading for Tri-State only under one entity, so I have shut down Tri-State Power Marketing (the division), and have opened them up under Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., which, per my conv. w/Stephanie, is being amended to add ""through its Tri-State Power Marketing Division"" to the PA. 
Per a head's up from Tanya, LG&E Power Marketing was merged into LG&E Energy Marketing and is no longer an active corporation.  Take it off the executed 
I just spoke to Frank, and spoke to Jeff Blumenthal earlier this week about tax issues arising out of Amita executing documents on behalf of EOL and ENA.  Frank just informed me that the Japan office has also been provided with stamp of Sheri Thomas's signature so they can execute PA's out of Japan.  Frank and I were thinking we might want to get together sometime next 
In order to improve communication between the Legal Department and our Online team, Mark Haedicke has asked us to prepare a list of legal contacts which we will be providing to the Online team.  Before we send this out, I have been asked to send the list to each of you for your input.  Please let me or Leslie Hansen know of any additional contacts or changes that you feel we need to make to the list. 
I do not believe that statement is correct.  The limitation was required in the corporate documents of the company, so it should apply to all agreements.  Can you send me up a copy of the Password Application and I will give Steve Norris a call.  Thanks. Camille Gerard@ENRON 10/14/2000 12:44 PM 
Tana, We now have an application from Tembec, Inc.   Steven Norris, as Treasurer, is the one signing the Password Application for Tembec.   When John Cummings met with him last week, Steve stated that he would be involved in setting up the users for Physical transactions. After reading the requirements below, it sounds like the two signature rule applies to Financial transactions only. In other words, can we set up Steve as well as his users with Physical access without two officers' signing? If so, then we could get them on-line with Physical access and then work on whatever we need for Financial access. Thanks for your help! Camille 36150 
On the 10/05/00 List:  Tembec, Inc.'s bylaws require that agreements signed by the company must be signed by any two of the following officers:   the President or a Vice President together with any Director, Secretary or Assistant Secretary.  If you are going to trade with them online you must ensure that the Password Application gets signed by those officers, or if not by those officers, they must provide a resolution if any officer except those above signs the documentation.  Because of this signatory restriction EnronOnline was hesitant to open them for financial trading.  It's up to your group, but you must comply with these special signatory requirements.  If you would like Legal to pass on the documentation if you are unsure, forward it up to me. 
Attached are new ClickPaper counterparty approvals for 10-13-00.  I tried to get these out on Friday afternoon but Lotus Notes was down for everyone in our group... Walter 
Great!  Look forward to hearing from you.  If you have any questions give me a call... MALCOLM Greg -CONTROLLER <greg.malcolm@ontariopowergeneration.com> 10/16/2000 06:20 AM 
Inc. Dear Greg, As we discussed, I am attaching our proposed form of ISDA Schedule and Credit Support Annex for your review.  If you have any comments or questions, please do not hesitate to call me at 713/853-3399.  We look forward to hearing from you. 
I'll wait for your direction since we need to communicate this to EOL and Credit. Jane McBride@ENRON 10/16/2000 07:03 AM 
Dear Tana, Re Japanese counterparties generally, we are preparing a list of documents to be submitted at time of application for passwords, as well as a check box for use by EOL staff in considering applications to deal with the various general legal issues which have been raised.  (The idea is that anything which falls out of the boxes comes to me for separate consideration but we trying to do it to minimize this need.) Re Japanese counterparties which want to do weather, the safest approach for a would-be counter party which is not a bank, securities company or insurance company (or at least does not have these words in its name) is for the application to come back to me in Tokyo for consideration in the context of the laws which prohibit gambling and what we can do to protect ourselves. Thanks. Jane McBride Tana Jones@ECT 10/13/2000 01:58 AM 
Per our conversation while you were here, attached is a list of all the Japanese counterparties that have requested Password Applications from EnronOnline.  Let me know you thoughts about this, and, as we discussed, online due diligence with respect to Japanese counterparties. 
Let me know if you need anything else. 
Mary, you don't need to copy me on these types of emails. Mary G Gosnell 10/16/2000 08:40 AM 
Walter, to be able to get a quick turnaround on these counterparty setups, my group needs the address and phone number to these counterparties....our deadline is 10:00 am today, and with the minimal information on the spreadsheet (just CP name) we will not be able to complete setup by deadline and cause delays for the global contracts group..... Please provide the data above asap.....call if you have any questions....thanks.... Mary Gosnell x3-1727 Walter Guidroz@ENRON 10/15/2000 12:53 PM 
Attached are new ClickPaper counterparty approvals for 10-13-00.  I tried to get these out on Friday afternoon but Lotus Notes was down for everyone in our group... Walter 
taffy, in the future, can you just print out the calendar and leave it in my in box.  Thanks. Taffy Milligan 10/16/2000 10:18 AM 
Please review the attached calendar and advise of any revisions. Thank you, Taffy 
Taffy,  these are all finance deals that Sara worked on.  Can you work with her to get copies of the ISDA Masters for this guy in the Audit group.  Check Lotus Notes to see if we have blue files, and if not, check w/Sara. 
Tana, Here is the listing as we discussed: Chase III Chase Mahonia III Chase IV Delta Rosevelt Truman Jethro Yosemite Bridge Yosemite I Yosemite II Yosemite III If you have any questions, just give me a call.  I'm located at X53919 and EB2465a. Thanks. 
Stephanie worked on this.  Stephanie, can you get with Bob... Robert Bruce@ENRON Sent by: Robert Bruce@ENRON 10/16/2000 10:48 AM 
Tana, Sam and I are putting together a draft ISDA between ENA and an Australian bank -- I understand from Sara that you worked with her on a recent ISDA w/ James Hardie, another Australian bank. It does not appear from the CP has delivered its legal opinion to us -- however, do you have a draft of legal opinion that Sam could use as a template?  if so, could you e-mail it to Sam? We have been asked to get a draft out on a rush basis so any help you can provide in expediting this would be appreciated -- thanks, Bob Robert E. Bruce Senior Counsel Enron North America Corp. T (713) 345-7780 F (713) 646-3393 robert.bruce@enron.com 
Per our conversation, I am attaching a sample form of online weather GTC.  As we discussed, I am trying to complete the information for ""Datasource"" and under ""Floating Amount"" for Reporting Service and Reporting Agency for the U.K.  Thanks for your help! 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of Engage Energy US, L.P., now known as Coastal Merchant Energy, L.P., which guarantees the obligations of ENA under an  ISDA Master Agreement.  We will need the standard executed copy.  This guaranty will supersede and replace, in part, the prior guaranty with respect to ENA and Counterparty.  The guaranty will be fully replaced when counterparty receives the new Enron Corp. Guaranty with respect to the obligations of Enron Canada and Engage Canada (still covered under the existing guaranty, and such replacement is still under negotiation). Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
Attached is documentation filed with the Delaware Secretary of State reflecting the name change of Engage Energy US, L.P. to Coastal Merchant Energy, L.P., such name change to be effective on October 3, 2000 (per the corrective amendment filed with the Delaware Secretary of State attached hereto.  Please make a note of this name change in your records. 
Please note and change as appropriate in our system.  The docs are drafted in 
? ? For your  information, please see six (6) attachments regarding?our name change from  Engage Energy US, L.P. to Coastal Merchant Energy, L.P. Please call or  e-mail?if you have any  questions. ? Jeff Buzonas?  713-877-3774?? jeff.buzonas@cmenergy.com ? Don  Fishbeck?? 713-877-3778? ?don.fishbeck@cmenergy.com ? Kiran  Parthsarathy? 713-877-7944? kiran.parthasarathy@cmenergy.com ? Spencer  Voytek?? 713-418-4587? spencer.voytek@cmenergy.com ? ? ? ? Jeffrey A.  Buzonas ? Jeffrey A. Buzonas Manager, Credit Risk Coastal Merchant Energy, L.P. Phn:(713)  877-3774 Fax: (713) 297-1605 E-mail: jeff.buzonas@cmenergy.com ? - Engage CME Name Change Press Release.doc - CME NAME CHANGE ONLY.doc - CME Name Change Amend1 100100.BMP - CME Name Change Cert 100100.BMP - CME Name Change Amend Correct 100300.BMP - CME Name Change Cert Correct 100300.BMP 
Davis Minns, Robert McGrory, and Alison Keogh in the Australia Legal Office, and Jane McBride and Yo Yamanishi in the Japan Legal office need full edit access to the Financial Trading Agreement Database in Lotus Notes.  Can you let me know when this has happened.  Can you also get the view capability to the Legal Online Trading Database.  Thanks 
Last week Tana and I discussed geeting the Australian ISDA Masrer Agreements loaded onto the the international data base. I already have access to this data base through Lotus Notes. The agreed actions were Tana would arrange for Alison, Rob and myself to have update and view access. Tana would work with Alison on getting existing Australian ISDAs loaded up and explaining functionality. 
I have received a Notice of Assignment that effective 8/21/00, Public Service Electric and Gas Company has transferred to PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC its interest in the ETA with ENA dated 01/11/00.   A copy of the assignment will be sent to Lisa and Tom.  Please let me know if you have any problems with this assignment.  If not, I will get Leslie Hansen to sign off on the 
Sure, see your there. Karen Lambert 10/16/2000 02:55 PM 
Are you available to speak for about 15-20 minutes at the start of our meeting next Tuesday to discuss ""the Legal approval process for online trading""? 
There are no approvals for today. Regards, bd 
There were no approvals from the 12th or 13th 
How about for the 12th + 13th? Bradley Diebner 10/16/2000 03:51 PM 
There are no approvals for today. Regards, bd 
Per our conversation, attached is the form of ISDA Agreement, with Enron guaranty attached to it.  As we discussed, Cadwalader will issue an enforceability opinion with respect to the Enron Corp. guaranty, so we need to provide them with an opinion with respect to Enron Corp. general corporate matters. Thanks for your help! 
Mary, At the request of Bob Shults, I am attaching our proposed form of Non-Disclosure Agreement.  Please call me or Bob with any comments or questions you might have.  My phone no is 713/853-3399 and Bob can be reached at 713/853-0397.  If the agreement meets with your approval, please fax a signed copy to me at 713/646-3490.  We look forward to hearing from you. 
Notice No. 00-354 October 13, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: MARGIN RATE CHANGE 
I'm still looking for that list of approved European countries for online 
I received a faxed copy of the Customer Registration Form, Password Application and Letter Agreement amending the ETA.  I expect the originals to follow tomorrow.  I will have copies walked down to Lisa since the customer is eager to start trading.  I will follow with the originals in the usual 
No, no ISDA's or other master agreements in place with this counterparty. Justin Boyd 10/17/2000 05:04 AM 
Hi Tana! Could you assist on this? Many thanks Justinian 
I have been asked by Credit.com whether there are ISDA agreements in place with the above mentioned banks (who are about to merge). I suspect the answer is No but please can we find out. Thanks. 
I  think maybe if we could get together with Frank and call Jeff then we could resolve this w/o continuing circular conversations.  Jeff is familiar with the issue now. Mark Taylor 10/17/2000 09:25 AM 
We should get together with the right tax person/people - maybe Jeff can figure this out. Tana Jones 10/13/2000 05:07 PM 
I just spoke to Frank, and spoke to Jeff Blumenthal earlier this week about tax issues arising out of Amita executing documents on behalf of EOL and ENA.  Frank just informed me that the Japan office has also been provided with stamp of Sheri Thomas's signature so they can execute PA's out of Japan.  Frank and I were thinking we might want to get together sometime next week to discuss this. 
Below is an icon that will get you view access to the financial agreement database.  This lists all the financial agreements we either have executed or have drafts out to the counterparty (except Australia, which we are currently loading into the database).   This database is available with view access to any Enron employee.  If you have any questions about a specific entry, please do not hesitate to call me (or email me!). Link --> Anne Edgley 10/17/2000 10:15 AM 
Thanks Justin. As a follow-uo, Credit.com are now asking whether they can have a list of all counterparties with whom with executed ISDAs. I presume that is a long list but hopefully easily available. Thanks again for your help. Justin Boyd 17/10/2000 15:16 
Anne FYI J 
No, no ISDA's or other master agreements in place with this counterparty. Justin Boyd 10/17/2000 05:04 AM 
Hi Tana! Could you assist on this? Many thanks Justinian 
I have been asked by Credit.com whether there are ISDA agreements in place with the above mentioned banks (who are about to merge). I suspect the answer is No but please can we find out. Thanks. 
Below is an icon that will get you view access to the financial agreement database.  This lists all the financial agreements we either have executed or have drafts out to the counterparty (except Australia, which we are currently loading into the database).   This database is available with view access to any Enron employee.  If you have any questions about a specific entry, please do not hesitate to call me (or email me!). Link --> Anne Edgley 10/17/2000 10:15 AM 
Thanks Justin. As a follow-uo, Credit.com are now asking whether they can have a list of all counterparties with whom with executed ISDAs. I presume that is a long list but hopefully easily available. Thanks again for your help. Justin Boyd 17/10/2000 15:16 
Anne FYI J 
No, no ISDA's or other master agreements in place with this counterparty. Justin Boyd 10/17/2000 05:04 AM 
Hi Tana! Could you assist on this? Many thanks Justinian 
I have been asked by Credit.com whether there are ISDA agreements in place with the above mentioned banks (who are about to merge). I suspect the answer is No but please can we find out. Thanks. 
Attached are the ClickPaper approvals for October 17, 2000.  Thanks. Walter 
The EOL approvals for 10/10/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Attached is an amendment to open Block Lumber Company, Inc. to trade both financial and physical.  The original had them trading only within physical. Please call if you have any questions.  Thanks. Walter 
Derek Davies faxed down copies to the Enmax master and the file is missing. 
Singapore Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) 
It was somehow sent to me to.  I think they're sending it to all employees. Shawna Flynn 10/17/2000 01:28 PM 
Singapore Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) This note was somehow forwarded to me. Paul de Canha 10/17/2000 12:15 PM 
Singapore Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) Rikesh I have changed the counterparty name as requested from Independent Petroleum Group Ltd. (CP ID  :68428)  => Independent Petroleum Group Limited, Bahamas C/O Independent Petroleum Group S.A.K, Kuwait The contact details are also in correctly Regards Paul 35593 Rikesh Patel 17/10/2000 17:41 
Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) Hi Guys, I have had a letter from the above counterparty to amend its entity name. Please can you amend it within GCP. There is already IPG LTD within GCP, which can be inactivated. Thanks Ricky 
I just wanted to let you know, I've got calls into Duke about the executed master and haven't heard back yet.  I will give you and Brent a call as soon 
Singapore Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) 
This email appears to have gone to all Houston Legal, or all Houston.  You might want to check your distribution lists. Paul de Canha 10/17/2000 12:15 PM 
Singapore Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) Rikesh I have changed the counterparty name as requested from Independent Petroleum Group Ltd. (CP ID  :68428)  => Independent Petroleum Group Limited, Bahamas C/O Independent Petroleum Group S.A.K, Kuwait The contact details are also in correctly Regards Paul 35593 Rikesh Patel 17/10/2000 17:41 
Crude Financials (01K2) (Non-EFFT) Hi Guys, I have had a letter from the above counterparty to amend its entity name. Please can you amend it within GCP. There is already IPG LTD within GCP, which can be inactivated. Thanks Ricky 
Per my voicemail, attached is the ISDA Agreement revised to reflect those guaranty changes you agreed to. 
Attached is the referenced list.  My ""amended-no change"" means I am OK with Credit changes. Do I owe you some other old lists? 
Well, just mentioning the landmark levels now, we just hit 460...it's not 
Yeah, yeah, yeah...we're still waiting for 4!!! Marie Heard@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 10/17/2000 03:24 PM 
Yeah, yeah, yeah.  How long have y'all been saying you were going to hit 500?  I'm still holding at 3 with the possibility of getting 6 more signed by year end. Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist Enron Broadband Services Phone:  (713) 853-3907 Fax:  (713) 646-8537 Marie_Heard@Enron.net Tana Jones@ECT 10/17/00 03:21 PM 
Well, just mentioning the landmark levels now, we just hit 460...it's not impossible that we won't get 40 more in by the end of the year... 
Per the attached, I think we will need to amend our board resolution(s) to add Cassandra as a signatory.  The ENA resolution appeared to have Ted specifically. 
Mark, Per my conversation with Tana Jones, I am sending this request on behalf of Ted Murphy to change the primary signer for all documentation with respect to opening brokerage accounts and authorized trader lists to Cassandra Schultz. Cassandra recently joined the Market Risk Management Group (RAC) group as a VP. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me. 
We have a 3:00 meeting tomorrow w/Lisa Lees and phone in to Jeff Blumenthal in tax to discuss metals and Japan issues re: signing PA's and any other 
My assistant Taffy Milligan is tracking these down for you.  Her direct no is 57373. Brad Lawson 10/18/2000 07:57 AM 
Tana, Sorry to bug you again regarding these contracts.  Any idea when we can expect them?  Tom Myers is asking me for a spreadsheet, but I can't complete it until I have some information from those documents. If you've already sent them, thank you very much.  If not, any idea when it will be? Brad X5-3919 
River Electricity Futures 
River Electricity Futures Notice No. 00-356 October 18, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: MARGIN RATE CHANGE 
Mike Haney with EBS. Louise Kitchen 10/17/2000 05:58 PM 
PWC - whose NDA is it? Please exapnd to all VPs. Thanks 
Thanks!  I'll get Lavo's title changed.  I spoke to our buddy in London this morning.  He seems to be doing wonderful, as usual.  He and Sue are getting ready to buy a new house in Twickenham, four bedrooms, garage (so he can park his new convertible home instead of across town) on the river.  It sounds really nice.  He has been traveling alot.  Weddings almost every weekend for months.  Rowing.  That about sums it up. I ran into Gaffer for the 1st time in months.  By his traveling schedule, I think we've really hired him to be a door to door salesman. I heard the Mounties have arrived for you.  Your new lawyer has started. 
I checked w/the Corp. Secretary's office, and they were unaware that Rex and Dave  were appointed as MD's, so the corporate paralegal is getting the board resolution passed adding them on, as well as adding Mark Palmer as a VP. Louise Kitchen 10/18/2000 10:34 AM 
Rex Shelby or David Berberian to sign 
Mike Haney with EBS. Louise Kitchen 10/17/2000 05:58 PM 
PWC - whose NDA is it? Please exapnd to all VPs. Thanks 
The EOL approvals for 10/18/00 are attached below. Regards, bd 
Neither Enron London nor Enron London/Singapore has an ISDA Master in place with Union Oil Company of California.  ENA does, but that won't help you. Rikesh Patel 10/18/2000 09:27 AM 
Hi Tana, I have left you a voicemail regarding this matter, but I thought I would expand on what I require. Enron Singapore branch did a trade with Unocal International Trading Company (Singapore) on EOL. I want to know if the American entity (Union Oil Company California) has a Master Agreement / ISDA Agreement with Enron London / Singapore on a Financial stage. If they do please could you forward a copy of the agreement, otherwise please could you call me to discuss the matter further. Thank you for your help. Ricky 
Mark, Mieco is the cpy where we had the misposted/bad online trade & we held up their master.  Can we send it out? Edward Sacks@ENRON 10/18/2000 12:41 PM 
It has been brought to my attention that the Mieco ISDA has not been received by the company.  Could you let me know if there is any hold up or perhaps if we need to trace the package?      Thanks Ed Sacks 
Remember as those Ameren Energy Inc., as agent, etc. for various companies we got ETA amendments in for.  They are coming thru tonight as as online 
Justin I've been running around trying to determine whether we have a tax problems with Amita doing what she's doing for the above companies, and I'm hearing that you've already cleared that with tax.  Can you please confirm this for me. Justin Boyd 10/11/2000 09:49 AM 
..what a star you are!! justin 
These could take a few days (or more!).  They have to be circulated to the directors of the Company for signature and timing will depend on their availability for signature.  If Amita wants to start signing today, she can go ahead and start signing now and I'll make her appointment effective as of today. Cindy Buckley 10/11/2000 09:22 AM 
Hi Tana Thanks for quick response. I'm happy for the unanimous consents of the directors and the attorneys-in-fact.  Please could you let me know when these have been signed and are effective. Thanks for your help. Regards 
First, this counterparty is OK to trade physical power.  I just spoke to 
Are you holding up this cpy for any reason? 
Doesn't ring any bells and I don't have any files re this CP.  Do I need to be working on one? Leslie Tana Jones 10/18/2000 01:00 PM 
Are you working on an ETA amendment for them? 
We have received the executed Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement with the referenced Counterparty dated 10/18/00.  I will deliver a copy to Dovie Keprta, until I receive any further direction as to who you would like 
Thanks for the note.  Just pass on my concern for Clarissa and hope for her improvement. Fiona Stewart 10/19/2000 06:44 AM 
Hi Tana Michael has asked me to get in touch with you to apologise for not contacting you earlier and to say that unfortunately Clarissa is very ill and in and out of hospital so he will not be able to contact for the next couple of weeks. Consequently, he will not be in the office the  rest of the week and will also not be in next week.  He is not picking up his emails but is picking up voicemails.  If you would like me to pass any message on to him, please just email me or call me on 0207 783 7212. Thanks Fiona 
I'm OK all day long, so just email me when you want to chat (our time) and I'll make sure I'm at my desk. Andrea Calo@ENRON 10/18/2000 07:44 PM 
Tana,  are you available for a call tomorrow afternoon?  If so please le me know what time is of yuor convenience.  Thanks. Regards, Andrea 
Attached below is the Argentine customer list for EnronOnline.  My understanding is that we will launch EnronOnline in Argentina within the next couple of weeks.  With this in mind, I think we will have to shoot for the end of next week (October 13) to have customer profiles completed.  Please let Lisa Lees know of any conflicts or issues that arise. Thanks! Frank 
Frank, It seems now that we are going to proceed with Argentina. Therefore, I am attaching the customer list. I am not sure if you already have it. Thanks! Leonardo Pacheco 
Esta es la lista que querias. 
Attached below is the Argentine customer list for EnronOnline.  My understanding is that we will launch EnronOnline in Argentina within the next couple of weeks.  With this in mind, I think we will have to shoot for the end of next week (October 13) to have customer profiles completed.  Please let Lisa Lees know of any conflicts or issues that arise. Thanks! Frank 
Frank, It seems now that we are going to proceed with Argentina. Therefore, I am attaching the customer list. I am not sure if you already have it. Thanks! Leonardo Pacheco 
Esta es la lista que querias. 
Just a note to remind you to add the ""ESP' and ""Country"" information to 
At the request of David Minns their short name in Lotus Notes will be EAF (for Enron Australia Finance).   David gave me a list of their masters, so I am going to enter just the names and agreement.  David and Alison will flesh 
Leslie Hansen just called me and it appears the power traders have asked her to review the ETA for trading on the Dynegy Website.  I told her we were meeting to develop a policy about the opening of such websites, that we had no board resolutions passed allowing the opening of them, nor do we have control procedures in place about where statements go, etc., so we can control and prevent ""rogue"" trading.  She said before she sent this out she 
The Australia office gave me a list of their masters and I have entered them into the database.  We still don't have copies.  Further, I don't know more than if it's executed and the date.   They need to flesh out the additional 
ANP Marketing Company has faxed in their PA and ETA amendment and we should get the originals in by fedex today.  They are hot to trade ERCOT online, and I don't know if they can trade it or not, but if we could move them up to the 
The critical documents are usually the masters and any guarantees issued. Thanks for your help. Juana.Fayett@enron.com 10/19/2000 10:32 AM 
Tana, I work with Jana Morse and our group is in charge of Australia. We have copies of Aussie ISDAs, which ones do you need?? And, what other additional info is required?? Thanks, Janie 
FYI 
The Australia office gave me a list of their masters and I have entered them into the database.  We still don't have copies.  Further, I don't know more than if it's executed and the date.   They need to flesh out the additional information that is required. - pic11478.pcx 
Heating Oil 
Heating Oil Notice to Member # 00-359 October 19, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX MEMBERS AND MEMBER FIRMS ALL NYMEX CLEARING FIRMS ALL NYMEX OPERATIONS MANAGERS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice President SUBJECT: MARGIN RATE CHANGE 
Mark Taylor asked me to run something on Online Trading by you.  We got a list of questions on various Online Trading issues from the Products Control Group which appears to be the group the will be managing the Online Trading HelpDesk.  One of their questions related to the desire of HelpDesk managers to periodically listen in on phone calls with the customer to ensure what they explained as a ""quality control"" over the responses given to customers on the HelpDesk.  They explained it as being like when your credit card company has an announcement that says the calls may be monitored from time to time. Is this something we want to do?  If we do, that brings up other issues, and we will have to run this by our outside counsel, Sullivan & Cromwell. 
Notice #00-331 October 12, 2000 TO: ALL NYMEX DIVISION MEMBERS ALL NYMEX DIVISION CLEARING MEMBERS ALL MEMBER FIRMS FROM: Neal Wolkoff, Executive Vice-President SUBJECT: PROPOSED RULE TO ALLOW STRIP TRADING IN PROPANE ______________________________________________________________________________ ___ The NYMEX Board of Directors has voted to allow strip trading in the Propane Contract.  The proposed amendment to Rule 6.08D must be reviewed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) prior to implementation.  The proposed rule amendment is attached below. This rule amendment will become effective after CFTC approval is received. The Membership will be notified when strip trading will begin. If you have any questions, please contact Daniel Brusstar at (212) 299-2604. PROPOSED RULE AMENDMENT (*Asteriks* surrounding a word or phrase represent an addition, and [brackets] a deletion) NYMEX Floor Rules Rule 6.08D.   STRIP TRANSACTIONS (A) Definition:  A strip transaction shall consist of either the simultaneous purchase or sale of an equal number of contracts in each of two or more consecutive contract months for crude oil futures, natural gas futures, heating oil futures, gasoline futures, *propane futures,* or electricity futures for a single account that is quoted and traded at a single price. (B) Floor Members executing strip transactions shall properly record them in writing so as to permit the identification of the strip transactions and the parties thereto.  All strip transactions for futures contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline, *propane,* or electricity on the Exchange trading floor must be made by open outcry in the trading rings for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline, *propane,* or electricity, as applicable.  All strip transactions must be in line with prevailing contract prices for strip transactions and the prices of futures contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline,  *propane,* or electricity, as applicable, comprising the strip transaction shall be within the permissible price limits of the contract months traded. (C) The seller in each strip transaction must report on the hard copy ply of his or her trading card the price of the strip transaction to the Exchange. The Exchange shall then assign the prices for each of the crude oil, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline, *propane,* or electricity futures contracts months comprising the strip transaction pursuant to a methodology as established by the Exchange. (D) Except as provided in Rule 6.08C(C), strip transactions shall not set off stops in any contract. __________________________________________________ Please click on the link below to indicate you have received this email. 
Thanks for the heads up!  As usual, you're the best! Bob Bowen 10/19/2000 10:39 AM 
I assume you have heard that EOL is soliciting HoustonStreet.com and QuickQuote.com in order to increase their volume and market coverage.  The message below is from Ron Nolte, our IT person for the confirmation systems.  I think he is asking some very pertinent questions that may need your legal opinion. I guess my fear is that you have not been included in the conversations and set-up of EOL's discussions with HoustonStreet.com and QuickQuote.com. 
Just came back from a meeting in which Jennifer deBoisblanc Denny and Torrey Moorer informed everyone about the new venture between HoustonStreet.Com and Enron and QuickQuote.com and Enron.   In 90 days, HoustonStreet.Com and QuickQuote.com will be offering products offered on EOL. I solicit comments from everyone. As I understand it, a party wishing to trade gas and power can log onto HoustonStreet.Com and  deals offered on EOL will magically appear. The party might think, ""Hey, I can't do better than this on EOL, I'll take this deal"".  The deal is transacted 
Tana, Everyone who has access to Lotus Notes has ""view"" (no legal comments) access to the Legal Online Trading database.  Just forward the following link to whomever you want to view the system... Online Trading Agreements --> By the way, I am still waiting for confirmation of the access request below to the Financial Trading Agreements database.  I'll keep you posted. 
Davis Minns, Robert McGrory, and Alison Keogh in the Australia Legal Office, and Jane McBride and Yo Yamanishi in the Japan Legal office need full edit access to the Financial Trading Agreement Database in Lotus Notes.  Can you let me know when this has happened.  Can you also get the view capability to the Legal Online Trading Database.  Thanks 
Last week Tana and I discussed geeting the Australian ISDA Masrer Agreements loaded onto the the international data base. I already have access to this data base through Lotus Notes. The agreed actions were Tana would arrange for Alison, Rob and myself to have update and view access. Tana would work with Alison on getting existing Australian ISDAs loaded up and explaining functionality. Tana how are we going with access? We can then get things moving. 
Attached is a clean and blacklined draft of the changes to the ISDA Schedule.  We have also attached the proposed form of Enron Corp. Guaranty and the legal opinions of Enron North America and Enron Corp.  The opinions of Cadwalader with respect to the ISDA and the Guaranty will be sent shortly under separate cover from Susan Lobel at Cadwalader.  It appears the only remaining issue on the ISDA is the ""Conditions Precedent"" provision which NYPA is still considering. Please let me know if these changes meet with your approval. 
There are no EOL approvals for today and tomorrow Regards, bd 
Attached for your approval is the form of Enron Corp. Guaranty in favor of= =20 the referenced Counterparty, which guarantees the obligations of ENA under= =20 an  ISDA Master Agreement.  This Counterparty is an affiliate of the utilit= y=20 for the Province of Quebec, Hydro-Quebec.  We will need the standard execut= ed=20 copy. Per my voicemail, we will need the executed guaranty by Tuesday, October 2= 4,=20 2000.  Please let me know if this presents any problem. In addition, we will need the following closing documents:  (i) Certificat= e=20 of Incumbency, (ii) certified board resolutions of the Policy for Approval = of=20 Guarantees (=01&Policy=018), (iii) certificate by the Treasurer or other au= thorized=20 officer certifying coverage of the Guaranty under the Policy, and (iv)=20 certified copy of Enron Corp.=01,s articles of incorporation and bylaws. Upon approval and execution, please call me at x33399 to pick up the=20 documents.  Thank you for your assistance in this matter. 
I bet you thought I forgot about you?! The lawyer up at Enron Corp. just called me and said he just got off the phone w/Deutsche Bank and they have come to an agreement as to the proposed form of guaranty.  We have one more credit issue on the master that Credit would like us to revisit with them, but otherwise I think we close to being done.  If you would like me to coordinate the execution of the guarantees you need with Enron Corp., I will be happy to assist you. Clare.Godson@AllenOvery.com 10/10/2000 12:57 PM 
We just received what we hope is a final draft of the documents from Deutsche Bank, and I hope to respond back to you shortly, once I have had a chance to confirm they made all the changes. Clare.Godson@Alle 
We have received the executed Agreement for Exchange of Confidential Information with the referenced Counterparty dated effective 10/1/00.  Copies 
Harry, I believe this is yours... 
The attached GTC should not be used in relation to any financial product.  It reads as if it is to apply to physical lumber deals.  However, by copy of this memo to Tana, I ask that she verify that it has been an approved document for physical online lumber. Enron North America Corp. Mary Cook 1400 Smith, 38th Floor, Legal Houston, Texas   77002-7361 (713) 345-7732 (phone) (713) 646-3490 (fax) mary.cook@enron.com Tiffany Williams@ENRON 10/19/2000 03:04 PM 
Mary, Should the following document be attached to all lumber deals?  Recently, there was a clickpaper deal for lumber; the online GTC was attached to the confirmation.  But, a question on this document has since been raised. Please advise. Thanks, Tiffany 
We have received the originally executed Letter Agreement amending the referenced Electronic Trading Agreement.  Copies will be distributed. We also received the originally executed Password Application and Customer Registration Form.  I will send those down to EOL and no copies will be kept 
Michael Corbally just wanted me to confirm the following with you.  Per the list of Datasources you sent me, for France we've got Meteo France listed at the Paris address.  We had a confirm earlier this year using Meteo France where we used their Toulouse address.  I just wanted to confirm that the address we want as the standard address will be the Meteo France out of 
fyi 
Enron America de Sur S.A. is the enron entity set up to trade on EOL; Lisa Lees will manage the external customer access. Lynn Aven@ENRON 10/19/2000 04:26 PM 
Dale: I spoke with Jeff Bluementhal earlier today and wanted to confirm the parties that should be approved for trading Argentine.  The Enron party that should execute Argentine physical gas deals should be Enron America de Sur S.A.  It should be noted that all counterparties for this product should be Argentine entities. Regards Lynn 
Thanks for your help here.  Can you do me one more favor?  Can you check and make sure I am the only person that has access to change keywords.  Thanks! Michael Neves 10/20/2000 10:23 AM 
The following request has been completed. 
Davis Minns, Robert McGrory, and Alison Keogh in the Australia Legal Office, and Jane McBride and Yo Yamanishi in the Japan Legal office need full edit access to the Financial Trading Agreement Database in Lotus Notes.  Can you let me know when this has happened.  Can you also get the view capability to the Legal Online Trading Database.  Thanks 
Last week Tana and I discussed geeting the Australian ISDA Masrer Agreements loaded onto the the international data base. I already have access to this data base through Lotus Notes. The agreed actions were Tana would arrange for Alison, Rob and myself to have update and view access. Tana would work with Alison on getting existing Australian ISDAs loaded up and explaining functionality. Tana how are we going with access? We can then get things moving. 
Attached is the link that will allow you access to referenced database.  You should have edit access (non-Legal or Credit employees can get view access only.  They should not see our comments.  That information is confidential and subject to attorney/client privilege).   Let me know if you do not have edit access.  Please do not edit entries for companies or agreements outside your area of responsibility.  A few notes... There is some great reporting functionality in this database.  Check out some of the sorts on the left.  There is a drop down called ""Pending Swap Update"".  That sort will create a list of all executed and draft financial agreements.  There are ways you can sort the Pending Swap Update to generate reports for you compan The ""restrictions"" column should be limited to only those issues that are critical to trading/confirmations/settlement.  Kinda, before you do/authorize a trade read this.  Not for general legal notes. Once an agreement's status is coded ""executed"", it should never be coded elsewise (it will mess up reporting).  If you are amending an agreement or superseding and replacing one, code the status ""executed-under amendment"". I should be the only one coded to change the ""keywords"" in the drop downs. If you need keywords added, send me an email and I will add them for you. Please note, that we have just upgraded the database to add the ISDA definitions, branch offices approved for trading, and market disruption provisions.  This information should be inputted for the new master swap agreements on a going forward basis, but we still need to go back and repopulate the data for the existing master swap agreements. Also, FYI, the ""See"" drop down is our nickname for the name changes and mergers reference.  If an item is filled in for that entity it should show you any prior or new names for the counterparty. We hope you find the information provided in this database helpful. Link --> 
The following request has been completed. 
Davis Minns, Robert McGrory, and Alison Keogh in the Australia Legal Office, and Jane McBride and Yo Yamanishi in the Japan Legal office need full edit access to the Financial Trading Agreement Database in Lotus Notes.  Can you let me know when this has happened.  Can you also get the view capability to the Legal Online Trading Database.  Thanks 
Last week Tana and I discussed geeting the Australian ISDA Masrer Agreements loaded onto the the international data base. I already have access to this data base through Lotus Notes. The agreed actions were Tana would arrange for Alison, Rob and myself to have update and view access. Tana would work with Alison on getting existing Australian ISDAs loaded up and explaining functionality. Tana how are we going with access? We can then get things moving. 
Group- Earlier this week, we met Tana Jones (Senior Legal Specialist) and Leslie Hansen (Legal Counsel) with ENA (servicing ENW) to discuss the process for executing NDAs.  Leslie will serve as in-house legal counsel for EMS while Tana will be the Senior Legal Assistant for all documentation such as NDAs. There are two general forms that ENW uses for NDAs.  The first form is bilateral and used when both parties are disclosing confidential business information.  The second is unilateral and more clearly and thoroughly articulates Enron's interests.  The second form should be used when Enron is the only party disclosing confidential information. When you would like to execute an NDA with an outside party, please contact Tana via email (tana.jones@enron.com) and carbon copy myself, providing the following information: 1.  Which form you would like to use 2.  General description of the confidential information to be shared 3.  Counterparty's legal name 4.  Counterparty's address 5.  Contact name at Counterparty 6.  How/where to send NDA and appropriate information (fax or email and number or address). Regards, 
Left message with George Gilbert.  FYI, Jen Fraser left Fred's group and is now with EGM. Sara Shackleton 10/20/2000 11:44 AM 
Tana to check on status.  Jason has this file and has not heard anything from ENA or the CP. Click on this link to view the document in the Financial Trading Agreements database--> 
I was just sitting here thinking, now that y'all are doing the financial confirms up there, your Confirmation Desk people need to be on the distribution list for our emails when we get signed masters in, so they know when they need to change from a non-master style of confirm, to a master style of confirm.  Who, pray tell, might your Confirmation Desk people be so 
We have received an executed Assignment and Novation Agreement dated 8/16/00 where EOL commodity swap Deal No. 267025, transacted 6/23/00 originally between Amoco Canada (""Amoco Canada"") Petroleum Company and Enron Canada Corp.   The trade has been assigned as follows: Amoco Canada assigned its interest in the trade to BP Amoco Corporation ECC assigned its interest in the trade to ENA. Copies will be distributed. 
Diane Seib is the contact person. 
I was just sitting here thinking, now that y'all are doing the financial confirms up there, your Confirmation Desk people need to be on the distribution list for our emails when we get signed masters in, so they know when they need to change from a non-master style of confirm, to a master style of confirm.  Who, pray tell, might your Confirmation Desk people be so we can add them... 
Pay  	: Bank of America, N.A. For the Account of	: Enron North America Corp. Account Number/ CHIPS UID : 3750494727 Fed. ABA No.	: 111000012 ""JASON PETERS"" <PETEJ@andrews-kurth.com> 10/18/2000 04:41 PM 